Former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, on Friday said he would never join the All Progressives Congress even though he had respect for the party’s presidential candidate and Nigeria’s President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The former governor also backtracked on his earlier comment that he had resigned from the Peoples Democratic Party following the party’s loss in Saturday’s presidential election. Fayose, who said he remained a PDP member, said he only stepped aside. The former governor in a statement titled, ‘I didn’t resign from PDP, I only stepped aside – Ayo Fayose’, urged Nigerians to continue to support and vote for the PDP, especially in the governorship and Houses of Assembly elections. The statement read, “I am not a member of the APC and will never be a member of the party. I have never hidden my respect for Tinubu. Notwithstanding, I believe that the 2023 presidential election is free and fair and I am entitled to my views. “I am not interested in contesting any political position again in my life. What am I going to contest for at 62? Even if I want to contest, not under the APC. I have said it repeatedly that I can never join the APC and I am still saying it now. But I need to emphasise that Nigeria needs somebody who will say the truth at this critical period in our history. Speaking on his membership of the PDP, he stated, “I am still a bona fide member of the PDP. I only said I stepped aside because I need to speak the truth to power without the fear of my view being tainted by party colouration. Resigning from a political party has procedure and the same will be followed if I strongly find the need to leave the party. “It is important that we have somebody that can say the truth without wearing any party toga. I am a member of the PDP, the National Executive Committee, the party caucus, the Board of Trustees based on my position as a former chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum. It’s a lifetime membership, but Nigeria is bigger than any party.” Fayose described the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, as the man of the season, adding, “Tinubu won the election, but PDP was too fractured to win an election at federal level. However at the state level, elections are local, please continue to vote and support the PDP especially in the governorship and Houses of Assembly elections.”