The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, says trial of corruption cases should not be the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government. Akeredolu said the state governments too should be able try corruption cases, particularly those perpetrated within their jurisdiction. The governor spoke on Tuesday in Akure during the inauguration of members of the Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission, the Ondo State Public Complaints Commission, the state Financial Crimes and Anti-Corruption Commission as well as members of the governing council of state-owned tertiary institutions. The immediate-past Chief Judge of the state, Justice Williams Akintoroye, was appointed the Chairman of the State Public Complaints, Financial Crime and Anti-Corruption Commission, while Dr Joseph Aremo is the ODIEC Chairman. Akeredolu noted that the establishment of the anti-corruption commission followed due process and in line with the claim that the current arrangement in the country is a federal system of government. He said, “The commission of certain offences is local. Corruption trials should not be the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government. Stealing is also an offence against the state. “Therefore, if an allegation of crime falls within the purview of the state’s criminal jurisdiction, it is proper that the trial be conducted in the place where the offence is committed. “This commission is expected to combat crime, effectively. Intelligence gathering should commence from the execution of the state budget passed into law. It is basic. “It is our hope that this body will be able to track budgetary allocations for the benefit of the people. All other engagements should focus on ensuring that the monies appropriated and released are utilised in the interest of the people. “There are other matters ancillary to this basic function. Corruption, as a social vice, has a wide spectrum. The unwholesome activities of public servants must come under close scrutiny. “There is, virtually, no area of public service that has not been infested with this virus. It is a shame that the state still battles to know the exact figure of those she owes obligations as workers. It is deplorable, indeed, that the government carries a heavy burden of salaries and emoluments of characters entirely unknown to the establishment. “These elements join others to exact pressures on the government. It is our hope that not only will those behind this disgraceful act be exposed, they must also have their days in court.” The governor charged members of governing councils of the state-owned institutions to think outside the box. He assured them of the state’s willingness to grant the institutions full autonomy.