The Osun State chapters of the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday accused each other of amassing weapons ahead of the next Saturday’s State Assembly Elections. The APC in a statement by its chairman, Mr Tajudeen Lawal, obtained in Osogbo, expressed concern over sophisticated arms and ammunition in the possession of the hoodlums allegedly loyal to the state governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke. The party stated that before free, fair and credible elections could be held in the state, there was a need for the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd), and the Inspector General of Police, Mr Usman Baba Alkali, to embark on the withdrawal of arms which has turned the state into a killing field. It also lamented attacks and killings of its members, stating that no fewer than 30 supporters of the opposition party, have been killed in less than 100 hundred days of Adeleke’s administration. The statement further read in parts, “I doubt it if there is any credible, free and fair election that can be held in Osun State under the present heavily militarized condition by the PDP thugs. “We enjoin your good offices to handle the suggested withdrawal of the illegal arms and ammunition from the PDP political thugs before the House of Assembly elections this Saturday with dispatch. What we are saying is that the electorates should be allowed to vote for their choices of candidates without coercion.” Responding to the allegation in another statement, Osun PDP acting chairman, Dr Akindele Adekunle, raised alarm on the alleged dangerous arms build-up by the APC ahead of the House of Assembly election and called on the IGP to urgently deploy resources to remove weapons in possession of thugs working for the opposition party in the state. The PDP further alleged that the APC has become desperate after its poor performance in the Presidential and National Assembly elections, warning of serious danger to the state and its people if the police chief failed to act in time. “As at the time of filling this report, APC thugs are parading the streets of Ife East and Central with guns and other dangerous weapons. There is a credible report that the arms build-up also affected the entire Ijeshaland and others. “Before the February 25 election, the APC went on a violent spree and the PDP suffered hugely. In Ikire, Irewole local government. Two PDP members were gunned down by the APC in their houses in the dead of the night, and in Ilesa, three PDP members were crudely murdered in broad daylight by the APC. “Governor Adeleke has consistently warned against violence, which the PDP strictly adhered to. This is more reason why we are calling on the IGP to come to the rescue of Osun people and save it from the impending bloodletting that the APC is planning to execute,” the statement concluded.