The Centre for 21st Century Issues has felicitated the winners of the February 25 presidential and parliamentary elections. The group noted that following the outcome of the elections, democracy was taking root in Nigeria. The Executive Director of the non-governmental organisation, Ms Gbemisola Akosa, specifically hailed the victory of the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, describing it as a victory for progressive forces across the country. Appraising the outcome of the elections, she stated that the presidential poll remained one of the most competitive in the history of the country. Akosa in a statement issued on behalf of her organisation also called on all aggrieved candidates in the elections to embrace peace by approaching the law court to ventilate their grievances. “We are glad that the much-anticipated general election with respect to the presidential and National Assembly elections has come and gone with the winners and losers emerging for the available positions. “We at the 21st Century Issues are particularly delighted that the elections went on well without any serious security breach. “Realising the fact that the issue of election and electioneering are very emotional, we are urging aggrieved by the outcome of the poll to approach the courts and not to seek self-help,” Akosa wrote. She also used the opportunity to call on winners at various levels not to take their respective victories for granted. Akosa called on the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, to see himself as the father of the country and not just to states where he won. She also called on Tinubu to reenact his numerous progressive and developmental strides in Lagos at the federal level. She expressed joy that the country is in a safe hand with Tinubu at the helms of affairs. According to the lawyer-turned environmental activist, a new dawn has birthed in the country, saying, “no serious politician will any longer joke with the electorate in Nigeria.” She lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission for delivery on transparent and credible election which largely reflected the will and preferences of Nigerians. “I am particularly delighted that democracy and democratic practices are beginning to take roots in Nigeria. This must be noticed and commended by all. “Nigeria is coming of age in its democratic journey and we are happy with that considering the numerous upsets witnessed during the elections,” she said.