Barely six days to the governorship election, a coalition of Bola Tinubu support groups, on Sunday, threw its weight behind the re-election bid of Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, of the Peoples Democratic Party. The groups include the Southern for Tinubu BAT Democracy; Yoruba Campaign for BAT and Tinubu Campaign Movement. They made the decision known during their solidarity visit to the residence of the deputy governor, Adebayo Lawal, in Ibadan, the state capital. It is believed that Makinde, who refused to support Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, worked behind the scene for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, who won Oyo State during the February 25 presidential poll. The Tinubu support groups, in a statement on Sunday jointly signed by its National Coordinator and Public Relations Officer/Director of Strategy, Adebayo Moronsole and Emmanuel Adesanya, respectively, said, “Makinde should continue in office for the improved life of the people of the state, therefore, the South-West for Bola Ahmed Tinubu coalition groups are pledging our support for him and his deputy. “We are here today, Your Excellency, to declare our support for Governor Makinde and his deputy. This decision was as a result of the their outstanding performances in office. “The group has no fewer than 372,000 members who have their Permanent Voter Cards. Our grassroots immobilisers are now on house-to-house campaign for the re-election of the governor. “We have enjoyed many good works by Makinde’s administration, including peace and security in the state. We, therefore, urge the residents to support his re-election for the continuation of the good works,” the statement added. Responding, the deputy governor, Lawal, expressed appreciation to the groups for their thoughtfulness and their readiness to work for the continuity of Makinde’s administration. He said Makinde remained one of the best governors the state had produced, owing to his unprecedented achievements in office. 