The African Action Congress has called on the “ruling class” to perish the alleged plan to foist an interim government on the country through the call for the cancellation of Saturday’s presidential poll. The party said though the election was not free, fair and credible, interim government was not an option. The AAC said this on Tuesday in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Femi Adeyeye, in Abuja. The party contended that the election “failed the basic tests of integrity and transparency as INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) together with the so-called major parties engaged in large-scale vote-buying, voters’ intimidation, vote suppression and results manipulation as evidenced by various reports from polling units and collation centres.” It contended that the failire to upload  the result sheets at the polling unit level  was a major  breach of the Electoral Act and the INEC Regulations and Guidelines. It said, “INEC clearly stipulated in Clause 38 of its Regulations and Guidelines that election results must be transmitted electronically via the BVAS after announcement at the polling units. In fact, the guidelines criminalise failure to comply with this provision.” The party lamented that “our National Secretary, who is also our national election collation agent, has consistently raised this breach of the Electoral Act and INEC guidelines at the National Collation Centre but the INEC chairman keeps dodging addressing these concerns.” It called on INEC “to follow the law and its own guidelines and  cancel “results not uploaded, collated and read from the server, in accordance with the Electoral Act and Guidelines.” Rejecting alleged interim government plot, however, the ACC said, “We are calling on the ruling class to shelve their plans to constitute an interim government, as that would be their gain in this imbroglio. We strongly oppose the constitution of an interim government, and we shall mobilise Nigerians to resist such plan. We are warning again!”