AS the world celebrated the 2023 International Women’s Day on March 8, the unedifying condition of women in Nigeria, and the raging food crisis returned into sharp focus. A new tangential report by UNICEF on the IWD has listed Nigeria as one of the countries hardest hit by the global food and nutrition crisis, which mostly affects women and girls. Between 2018 and 2021, undernourishment among females grew from 5.6 million to 7.3 million in Nigeria. Therefore, government at all levels should implement comprehensive strategies to end the food crisis ravaging its citizens. UNICEF laid the food crisis bare in its report entitled ‘Undernourished and Overlooked: A Global Nutrition Crisis in Adolescent Girls and Women,’ that was released to coincide with the IWD. It makes for grim reading. Nigeria ranks among the 12 countries with abysmal food and nutrition ratings, which reflect the level of hunger and malnutrition. The others are Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, and Yemen. Consequently, UNICEF said that 55 per cent of girls and women suffer from anaemia, while many women lack access to five of the 10 essential food nutrients, leading to complications and dangers in cognitive developmental, maternal health, and child mortality. It said, “For example, in Nigeria, 12 million children under five are stunted, meaning they are too short for their age due to malnutrition. Of those, about half become stunted during pregnancy and the first six months of life.” This harsh reality deserves urgent attention. In Nigeria, several factors are responsible for the crisis.Key among them is the absence of practicable agriculture policies to harness the 34 million hectares of arable land in the country, and the need to eliminate corruption in the funding of agriculture programmes. Despite the strategic global partnerships that considered Nigeria as a pivotal player in providing food sustainability in the continent, the result has been a set of isomorphic illusions. The situation has worsened with the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia’s war on Ukraine.UNICEF also noted that 17 million people are currently food insecure due to insecurity, featuring banditry, and kidnapping in the country. Also, the flooding in 2022 destroyed 676,000 hectares of farmland, diminished expected harvests, and further increased the food insecurity shocks in the country. In all this, women and children are often the hardest hit. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation says, “Food security is a situation that exists when all people, at all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life.” It is the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 2. Unfortunately, the 2022 Global Hunger Index Nigeria scores 27.3 (negative), indicating high hunger levels among the citizens. Ranked 103 out of 121 countries in 2022, and 103 out of 116 countries in 2021, Nigeria is far behind other countries. Apart from India (-29.1), developing countries like Brazil (+5.4), China (+5.0), and even warring Russia (+6.4) and Ukraine (+7.5), continue to thrive. The Annual Country Report of the World Food Programme 2019-2022, said seven out of 10 Nigerians had little or nothing to eat in 2021, while highly vulnerable residents devised negative coping strategies to survive. Referencing findings by a sub-regional study, in 2021, the report disclosed that 5.6million Nigerians in the North-West were projected to grapple with challenges of food security between June and August. Despite the interventions of aid agencies and the Federal Government, the National Bureau of Statistics’ Selected Food Prices Report for January 2023 revealed generally high food prices year-on-year, and month-on-month therefore restricting the citizens’ purchasing power. States and local governments need to buy into the FederalGovernment’s food security vision to achieve success. Fluctuating weather patterns, and increased aridity, which disrupts both planting processes and bountiful harvests and storage, also have negative impacts. Researchers link climate change to migration, herders’ attacks on farmers, and banditry. Flooding has led to a high risk of soil degradation in the South, while persistent rainfall in the North has stifled animal and crop production. Floods in 2010, 2012, 2013, 2018, 2022 submerged farmland, displaced many families, and increased the prevalence of cholera outbreaks. The Nigerian Meteorological Agency recently alerted the states of early rains and possible floods in 2023. All tiers of government should take proactive measures now. Unfortunately, the activities of terrorists in the North, and criminal activities everywhere else compound the food crisis. Farmers are denied access to their farms, while attacks on farms and cattle rustling make many places unsafe, and expose women and children to further dangers. Therefore, the fate of women, girls and all citizens can only change for the better when the government retools its security system to deliver safety for farmers. It should adopt a robust system that devolves policing to the units with a view to taming banditry, herdsmen rapine and disruption of farming activities. In Nigeria, the food storage aspect of the value chain has been overlooked. It should not be, but be upgraded and driven by technology. Creating self-sufficiency means addressing real infrastructural deficits in roads, cargo rails. Although the agriculture sector contributed 23.5 per cent to the GDP and 5.1 per cent of its export earnings in the past five years, it is not creating ample jobs down the line due to lack of investment in the processing, marketing, research and development and consumer engagement area of the chain. The federal and state governments should accord priority to food security and the drastic improvement in the condition of women in Nigeria