The governorship candidate of the Labour Party in Adamawa State, Umar Mustapha, tells HINDI LIVINUS about his support for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Aishatu Binani, and whether he feels she stands a chance to become the first elected female governor in northern Nigeria You dropped your governorship aspiration to support Senator Aishatu Binani, the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress, have you joined the APC or you are still a member of the Labour Party? In the recent past, the Labour Party said they had withdrawn whatever support they had for me. I am satisfied with that because I owe them nothing. Since I came into the party, I was the one spending money for the party in the state and I made it what it is. Most importantly, the Labour Party is not so formidable that I would regret losing or keeping myself away from it. I have also personally withdrawn myself from the party. I cease to be a member of the political party and will formally write to the Independent National Electoral Commission. However, I have also not declared that I am back to the APC. What I have done is to collapse my structure to help the candidacy of Senator Binani. The essence of that relationship is to help put together a strong team that will give the PDP government a good fight. Have you always had that plan? It is a tough decision, but the reality is that defeating an incumbent governor (Ahmadu Fintiri) is no joke. He has all the resources at his disposal. Being the governor, he has certain machineries which we do not have. But if we merge forces, we stand a better chance. If we go into the elections separately, we will be dividing our votes and that is what he wants. He has been banking on that. We realise that we need to come together. She was thinking that way and I was also thinking that way.  But there was no formal approach until certain people facilitated that. When we sat together it was just a question of minutes and we were able to convince ourselves of the need to come together and put our heads together to give the PDP a good fight. Was there any trade-off during your negotiations with Binani or your decision was taken in the best interest of the state? Naturally, my candidacy is backed by a team of people – both contestants and my campaign team and supporters. If I am taking the decision to step down, it is fair for everybody to ask what would happen to other contestants who are looking up to me for success in their elections. In the campaign organisation itself, what we agreed on was to collapse our structure into hers. We formed a committee that would work for the actualisation of our objectives. I didn’t do it to get anything in return; it’s in the interest of our state. Why would I want to shelve my ambition for somebody else without a concrete reason. The concrete reason was not for me to be given appointment; what I have spent in my political life, if I should be remunerated, I don’t think Binani would be able to dip her hands into her pocket to pay back because it is huge. I didn’t go into negotiation because someone would pay me. What about other candidates in the Labour Party? I negotiated on behalf of the members of the House of Assembly. These are people who have expended their resources to fund their campaigns and so on. If I just walk away and tell my supporters to also walk away, it will cause problems. We had understanding that, those who are confident to go through the process and win they should go ahead, and those who feel their chances of winning was dangling and may or may not win should step down for their APC counterparts for the state House of Assembly and will be rewarded with appointment when the government is formed. This is natural and there is nothing spectacular about it. But in my own case, there is nothing and no discussion regarding monetary inducement and appointment. Don’t you think your action could come across as a betrayal to the party that gave you the platform and those people who believed in you and your chances in the election? There has been some hue and cry left, right and centre, especially from people who are very close to me, but there is no point for me going into this election if I cannot win. There is also no point for Senator Binani to go into this election if she cannot win. She knows very well that it will be difficult for her to fight this battle alone and win; I am conscious of the same thing. The governor has all the resources at its disposal and he also has a presidential candidate who is also very influential. Given all these scenarios we realise the only way we can bridge that gap is to come together. It is widely believed that it may be difficult for a woman to win the governorship election in Nigeria, especially in the North. Are you confident your candidate will cross that hurdle? That used to be the case, but we have been able to tackle that very well. It is more or less a taboo, so to say, both from the cultural and religious point of view. Culturally, there are institutions that would not want to bend for a woman. However, given our peculiar scenario, everyone now understands why we are bringing her, not because she’s a woman but because she’s a very viable candidate for the office. The only way we can defeat Fintiri is to come together to have a formidable force because our aim is to make sure we put a stop to the maladministration which has been the principle behind this government. From the religious point of view, Islam says women should not lead. That is a fact. But don’t forget that Fintiri also has a deputy governor, who is a woman. Fintiri can go on holidays, then she can take over. If he’s sick, she can cover for him. So, any of these could give her that chance temporarily or permanently. In that case, both of them are not suitable under that Islamic Law. So, if you have two evils, you go for the lesser evil. Do you think the North is ready for a female governor? It’s on the way. Not only northern Nigeria, Africa has also lived with a lot of taboos which are not morally sustainable. People are changing and they are changing for the better. But with the advancement of the Western way of life, we are beginning to see Nigerians support such advances. What is your grouse with the present government in the state? It has performed below expectations. Governor Umaru Fintiri has received from statutory allocation, Paris Club refund, internally generated revenue, interventions etc., about N600bn since he came into power. How has the money been spent? If you pump about N400bn into an economy like ours, the difference will be there for people to see. Why is he going about saying I have awarded this or I will award that during elections? You don’t do politics with projects that are meant for the betterment of the society. What specific things will Binani do differently if elected? Look at the history of Senator Aishatu Binani, she is doing quite well. As a governor, she definitely has plans. Before the merger, we discussed and I told her some of the things I want to bring to the table and she was very happy and comfortable with them. So, it is going to be a fusion of what I had and what she has, which will bring succor to the socio-economic development of Adamawa State.