Four outstanding women were honoured in different fields of human endeavour at the LAPO Outstanding Women Leadership Award on Tuesday in Benin. In the professional category, Proprietor of Anchor International School, Kogi, Helen Mathias, was adjudged the winner; Gladys Okoro won in the business category; Mary Jackson won the farming category; while Elizabeth Ehigiamusoe got the lifetime achievement award. Except for Ehigiamusoe, all other winners got N300,000 each. Chairman, Board of Directors, LAPO, Dr. Osaren Omokpae, said the awardees through sheer determination, hard work and uncommon commitment had surmounted obstacles to attain success in their various fields of human endeavors. He stated that the 2023 award winners would bring the total number of awardees to 37 women since the award was instituted in 2013. He said, “A lot of progress has been made in the struggle to free women from the clutches of discrimination and abuse, this day reminds us that much work lies ahead to achieve true gender rights and equity in Nigeria in particular, and Africa in general. “This inequality can be seen in the persistent gender-based violence against women, son preference and deprivation of the girl-child in life opportunities, low representation of women in leadership positions in public and private sectors, child marriage, among others. “We in LAPO believe that there is an urgent need to address the marginalisation of women in all facets of our national life. We congratulate and rejoice with all the winners of this year’s 11th edition of the award who through sheer determination, hard work and uncommon commitment have surmounted obstacles to attain success in their various fields of human endeavors. Chairman of the organisation, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe, said one third of women globally had experienced a form of violence from their spouse and an estimated over 130 women were killed by their partners or a family member every day. He said, “The celebration of the anniversary of the LAPO Outstanding Women Leadership Award is a testimony of the strength of our conviction in women’s empowerment and contributions to societal advancement. “Globally, one third of women have experienced a form of violence from their spouse and an estimated over 130 women are killed by their partners or a family member every day. “Over 25 years since the adoption of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action; progress towards equal rights for women still remains elusive across countries. If we fail to challenge gender stereotypes, call out discriminations, draw attention to biases, and seek out inclusion, we may not be able to achieve the desired progress including the SDGs.”