Collation and polling units agents of the All Progressives Party in the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections in Rivers State have narrated how they were chased out from their stations by members of the Peoples Democratic Party. The APC collation and polling units agents in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area wondered why the Independent National Electoral Commission reneged on its promise of electronic transmission of results. The APC collation officer for ward 2 in Obio-Akpor, Mr Francis Eleto, at a media briefing on Wednesday, accused security agents of working with PDP stalwarts to rig the election. Eleto, who spoke on behalf all APC agents in Obio-Akpor, called for the cancellation of the National Assembly election in the Obio/Akpor LGA. He stated, “Supervisory Presiding Officers who ought to be at the collation centre were not found at the collation centre. All we saw at the collation centre were INEC officials  here and there but they were unable to upload results. “The House of Representatives and Senate results are not reflecting what it was at the polling units. “The APC won in most polling units in Obio/Akpor for the House of Representatives and Senate. We were not allowed into the collation centres. At the LGA level we were not allowed to go inside, we were chased out of the local government. “PDP did not allow us to man our various units. PDP hijacked both the BVAS and ballot boxes. INEC officials colluded with PDP. In our respective units, PDP stalwarts did not allow us to man our polling units. “They hijacked the BVAS machines and the results sheets and there was no security presence. Some PDP thugs came with security personnel.” Also speaking, the APC collation agent for ward 10 in Obio-Akpor, Mr Stanley Worgu, demanded cancellation of National Assembly election results in Rivers State. Worgu said they had written a petition to INEC, but the electoral umpire had yet to respond. “A lot of the results uploaded  so far on the INEC platform are not in consonance with the results signed at the polling units. “We are demanding total cancellation of the National Assembly election results in Rivers State. It was not an election.” But the Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Chris Finebone, said nothing of such happened during the February 25 polls. Finebone wondered why the same APC people who won the presidential election would be crying foul because they the other elections did not favour them. He stated, “This is  absolutely ridiculous and false. No such thing happened.  How could people  who claim they won election still accuse those who lost of rigging? It is absurd, outlandish and unbelievable. I advise them to stop this cheap propaganda. They should desist from such acts and follow the rule book that specify what the winner or the loser should do.”