The Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation has urged the nation’s judiciary not to disappoint Nigerians when handling suits for February 25, 2023, presidential election. The group also urged the court to stand with Nigerians, adding that it should do the needful to shed light on what transpired in the election. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday in Abuja, the convener of the group, Kinsman Chikelu, it was important the judges who will be handling the suits ensure justice prevails. He said, “As civilised citizens of Nigeria living in the diaspora, we have trust and we are using this opportunity to extend our demand again for the second time to the judiciary that they should not disappoint us and the entire Nigerians. They should say the law the way it is. The judiciary should do the needful and redeem the image of whatsoever transpired. “We are here to reinforce our stand categorically that the presidential election as witnessed a few days ago, was not free and fair, to the standard that we expected following several briefings by the Independent National Electoral Commission”. Chikelu said he personally witnessed that the devices used for the election were not “doing the transmission of the result to the server from the polling unit. We were all worried and we came back to Abuja the next day as the coalition was going on to say that what we witness in the polling unit wasn’t actually what we were briefed before as far as the use of BVAS as the game changer. “The various briefings we received from INEC was all about how they are organised and how they made all arrangement. But on the day of the election, all of us here witnessed the drama that was contrary to what the briefing was before the day of the election. Especially the issue of uploading the results of the presidential votes. “We are calling on different chapters of Nigerian leadership in the diaspora, the student union in the diaspora, the traders union, professional unions, the Ottawa group in the diaspora. We know our structures and we are using this opportunity to call for calm, let’s not jump the gun let’s give the judiciary this opportunity to do the needful.”