The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, on Thursday, congratulated the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, on his victory at the just concluded presidential election. Aregbesola noted the long journey of the President-elect in politics, stressing that Tinubu deserved every commendation for the feat. He added that Tinubu’s triumph would come with a lot of consolidation of the massive infrastructural development and progressive policies of the outgoing President. Aregbesola said, “I join the leadership of our party, starting from the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; the National Chairman of our party and other members of the National Executive Council; members of the Presidential Campaign Council other leaders of the party, members nationwide and admirers to congratulate Tinubu, the President-elect, and Kashim Shettima, the Vice President-elect, on their victory at the February 25, 2023, presidential election. “It has been a long and arduous journey, from the primrose circle, the senatorial bid and victory, Justice Forum/June 12/NADECO struggle, to Sunday Adigun/BATCO governorship struggle and victory, the governorship experience and MANDATE era in Lagos, the resurgence of progressive tendency in Western Nigeria, consolidation of progressive influence in Nigeria and now the Presidency. You deserve every commendation as we equally give glory to God for His mercy.” He urged the president-elect to work towards the betterment of the citizens as well as ensure the country meets her historic responsibility to Africans. Aregbesola said, “This victory is a call to duty. It is my wish that with this victory comes the consolidation of the eight years of massive infrastructure development and progressive policies of President Muhammadu Buhari-led government, deepening of the democratic process, advancement of social democracy, and promotion of party discipline and guaranteeing a better life for all. “Equally important is the need to ensure that Nigeria meets her historic responsibility to Africans and the Black Race as the leader of both entities.”