A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, Gboyega Isiaka, has insisted that the party raised the bar of governance and also helped foster unity in Nigeria, especially in Ogun and Lagos states. Isiaka, who is the Reps-elect for Yewa North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency in Ogun State, stressed that the party had rekindled hope for the possibility of a better future through its people-centred government. The APC stalwart, in a statement on Monday, urged the people of Lagos to support the re-election bid of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He also solicited support for the second term bid of the Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun. The House of Representatives member-elect revealed that his political structure in Ogun State, ‘The Believe Movement’, would work actively and selflessly to ensure that Governor Abiodun is re-elected for the continuation of the laudable projects and policies he started in the gateway state. He noted that Abiodun would espouse more developmental projects if returned to office. According to him, Sanwo-Olu’s developmental strides in Lagos in the last four years should earn him a second term in office. Isiaka stressed that supporting Sanwo-Olu for a second term in office would extend the lofty policies of his administration and keep Lagos on the path of growth and sustainable development. He said, “I am wholeheartedly endorsing the bid of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for a second term in office as Governor of Lagos. I can attest that Governor Sanwo-Olu stands out for his selfless stewardship, exemplary leadership, forthrightness, and commitment to good governance. “Sanwo-Olu has raised the bar of governance, fostered unity, and rekindled hope for the possibility of a better future in Lagos through his people-centred government.
“He has done enough in the last four years to engender socio-economic development in Lagos and his infrastructure projects have helped Lagos maintain its status as the centre of excellence. “We are not saying that his administration has been perfect, but he has done creditably well and is truly deserving of a second term in office. “As they say, one good turn deserves another. I urge voters in Lagos to support the governor to complete the good work he has started in his second term.”