Honda Manufacturing (Nigeria) Limited says the company recently launched a new motorcycle, Honda CB Unicorn, into the Nigerian market to raise the bar of performance in the subsector. The Managing Director of Honda Nigeria Limited, Hirohide Ichikawa, who made the disclosure, during his keynote address, describe the new product as “very reliable for commercial and private use”. He added that “the new Honda Unicorn was manufactured with the same innovative precision technology that is synonymous with the Honda brand, its unique and amazing features make it the best in its class.” According to him, the Honda Unicorn is designed to perfection after extensive engagement with Honda’s business partners, the distribution value chain and personal users, adding that the motorcycle is popular in India and the Middle East where the company recorded sales of more than 150,000 units in a year. Ichikawa explained that the company decided to launch the Honda Unicorn despite the current economic climate in Nigeria. “We are particularly proud that the Honda Unicorn is being launched today under the present difficult operating terrain in Nigeria. This doesn’t only symbolises the hope for a better future but also expresses our continued belief and trust in the Nigerian dream,” he added The Sales Manager of the company, Olabade Badejo, in a presentation disclosed the Unicorn motorcycle stands out because it is convenient for riders, adding that its parts are available. “It is best in fuel consumption, it guarantees high quality and durability. It has high resale value.” According to the company, the motorcycle is targeted at private and corporate customers, adding that it can be used by dispatch riders of banks, delivery organisations, corporate organizations, leisure riders and is good for patrol by security agencies. Stating further that Honda motorcycles are used in over 175 countries, Badejo accentuated the company’s plan to commence safety riding training in April 2023 to improve the riding skills of riders, increase profitability and boost the safety image of the organisation. He added that the training would be focused on riding mechanisms, accident and responsibility, cornering postures, balancing and braking systems.