The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, pledged his regime’s commitment to ensuring equal opportunity for women in Nigeria. Buhari acknowledged the invaluable role that women have played in advancing the progress of the country since independence, saying they have continued to deliver excellently despite all odds. A statement, signed on Tuesday by the President’s spokesperson, Femi Adesina, to mark the 2023 International Women’s Day, read in part, “Buhari pledges the commitment of the government to promoting gender equality, respect for the rights of women and working conscientiously to remove all barriers that prevent Nigerian women from realising their universal rights.” First observed in 1911, the IWD is marked yearly on March 8 to draw attention to issues such as gender equality, reproductive rights and violence, and abuse against women. Buhari, in his IWD message to Nigerian women, saluted their hard work and dedication to achieving results in different fields of endeavour, “from those sacrificing daily in the markets and farms to train the next generation of leaders, to those breaking limits in education, sports, medical field, arts, entertainment and even in politics, where they are still largely under-represented.” Meanwhile, the Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Chief Tony Ojukwu(SAN), has again emphasised  the imperatives of gender equality, saying that it holds the key to all-round development in every facet of society. He restated this on the eve of the 2023 IWD celebration, pointing out that it was high time the issue of gender equality and gender inclusiveness defined the way society is governed. He condemned the inability of the National Assembly to pass landmark legislation on women during the constitutional reforms, and used the opportunity of this year’s IWD to once again call on the federal lawmakers to consider and pass the Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill, CEDAW Domestication Bill and other bills supporting affirmative action. Similarly, in celebration of the 2023 IWD, the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria reiterated its commitment to equity for women in advertising and celebrating their contributions to the growth of the advertising industry in Nigeria. In the same vein, the  Goodluck Jonathan Foundation called on governments across all tiers as well as concerned stakeholders to address structural biases against women and girls in order to build an equitable and peaceful society. Executive Director of the foundation, Ms Ann Iyonu, stated this in a message to mark the 2023 International Women’s Day. Iyonu added that this year’s celebrations  called for urgent  action against the elimination of gender-based violence as well as the need for increased investment in technology for the advancement of the lives of women and girls. The foundation commended Nigerian women for their significant  contributions  towards sustainable development of the country.