A group, Concerned Northern Forum, on Friday, said those calling for the cancellation of Saturday’s presidential election are “enemies” of the country. The group noted that calling for the cancellation of the election was uncalled for, declaring that no election all over the world is perfect. Addressing a press conference at the Arewa House, Kaduna on Friday, CNF Spokesperson, Abdulsalam Kazeem, also knocked former President Olusegun Obasanjo for calling for the cancellation of the poll. While congratulating the APC presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, the spokesperson, noted that those calling for the cancellation of the poll were not only mischievous but “enemies” of democracy. He added that the fact that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, who is a northerner contested and lost, “does not mean we should join and discredit the elections.” He said, “Without wasting your precious time, we want to make our position known over the just concluded 2023 presidential elections and the announcement of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the President-elect, Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We want to, first of all, congratulate Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his well-deserved victory. As northerners, we are pleased with his victory and without being selfish want to identify and work with him when he’s eventually sworn in on the 29th of May, 2023 Inshallah. “The fact that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, a northerner contested with Bola Tinubu under the Peoples Democratic Party and lost does not mean we should join other undemocratic groups and networks in the country to condemn and discredit one of the most credible elections in the history of Nigeria. “Those calling for the cancellation of this election are enemies of Nigeria and must not be given a listening ear. Calling for the cancellation of an election that has been conducted in the most peaceful and orderly manner across the country is simply mischievous and a call for the abortion of democracy. “This election is the best Nigeria ever had and cannot be compared to the 1993 or even 1999 elections. Even in developed democracies, elections are never completely without challenges. “The American elections of 2015 that produced President Donald Trump were rumoured to be tempered with by the Russians. It was so widespread but that didn’t lead to the cancellation of the result. “The elections conducted by President Olusegun Obasanjo that produced Umaru Musa Yar’Adua were equally fraught with challenges but were not cancelled. In fact, Yar’Adua admitted the irregularities but rather worked towards electoral reforms. “In the spirit of sportsmanship, those who have lost these elections and their supporters should reach out and congratulate Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and pledge their loyalty to work with him for a better Nigeria. This is not the first time candidates will lose in an election. “Instead of creating tensions and causing disaffection amongst Nigerians across tribal and political divides, we call on those who feel aggrieved to approach the law courts following the laid down procedures and lodge their case. “To call for the cancellation of this election is to downplay the tireless efforts of the Commission and the resources expended so far to give Nigeria the best elections in Africa and the world at large.”