The Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has called on the electorate to once again vote massively for candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party in the State House of Assembly election scheduled for Saturday, March 11. He made this call after a three-day consultative meeting with the party’s candidates, caucus leaders, stakeholders and leaders of the non-indigenes from the eight Local Government Areas of the state at the Government House, Yenagoa. Diri, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, on Monday, ongratulated the state chapter of the PDP for the overwhelming victory recorded by the party in the February 25 general election. The governor expressed hope that the same feat would be repeated this Saturday in the House of Assembly election. He commended the peaceful conduct of the elections across Bayelsa, saying it was unprecedented in the history of elections in the state. The governor attributed the victory to God, stressing the need for PDP members to redouble their effort in order to emerge victorious in the election. Diri said, “I like to return all thanks and glory to God for the victory recorded in the February 25 elections. It can only be God. “On behalf of your government and our party, I say a big congratulations to you all for the victory. We appreciate you for making our party proud. It is no mean feat, particularly when compared with other states. In Bayelsa, PDP recorded 100 per cent victory.” “In this Saturday’s House of Assembly election, I urge people of the state to replicate this feat in giving victory to our candidates in the 24 state constituencies. I can assure you that our party will not deviate from its track record of development.” It would be recalled that in the presidential and National Assembly polls, the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar won Bayelsa State with a total of 68,818 votes and the party’s candidates also clinched all the three senatorial seats of Bayelsa Central, East and West. The PDP also won four of the five federal constituencies of the state in the House of Representatives elections. The constituencies won include Brass/Nembe, Sagbama/Ekeremor, Yenagoa/Kolokuma/Opokuma, and Ogbia. However, the Southern Ijaw federal constituency seat is pending for a supplementary election.