Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, on Friday said his administration had reduced the state’s dependence on the Federation Account Allocation Committee and enabled the state’s economy to continue to grow. Makinde stated this during the inauguration of the 3.2km dual carriage Ibadan Airport Road named after a former governor of the state, Dr Omololu Olunloyo; and the 500,000-litre aviation fuel storage and dispensing facility located within the Airport in Alakia. The governor was joined by his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, who inaugurated the Omololu Olunloyo Park, which would serve as a car park for transport services to and from the airport. Wike, who described the projects as the Makinde-led administration’s infrastructure revolution, called on residents of the state to re-elect the Oyo governor for another term to enable him to continue to execute landmark projects in the state. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa,  the aviation fuel facility, a public-private partnership project built by BOVAS Company Limited, was part of governor Makinde’s efforts to ensure the upgrade of the Ibadan Airport to an international facility and boost the economy of the state. He added that the Makinde administration would continue to serve the good people of the state till the last day of his first tenure in office and continue to honour heroes and leaders, who had served the state diligently. The governor was quoted as saying, “They have explained to us the other projects attached to it but history is being made here today because after the speeches here, for the first time, an aircraft will be fuelled at Ibadan Airport. Those who are saying all the projects we have been carrying out are audio, will see the video of the aircraft being fuelled here. “Our vision goes beyond building roads as we have ancillary projects, which this airport is part of. When we came into office, I remember stating in my inaugural speech that depending on over 60 per cent of FAAC allocation was not sustainable. “So, I promised that we would take actions that will put Oyo State on the path to sustainable development. With this project being commissioned today, I am happy to report that we have kept that promise.”