The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Kaduna State, Isa Ashiru, has called on registered voters to shun apathy and prepare to vote in the March 11 governorship and House of Assembly elections. He said a vote for the PDP during the election was a vote for freedom from insecurity or forceful sack without benefits in the state civil service. According to the governorship candidate, voters must relegate their experiences of the just concluded presidential and National Assembly polls and come out en masse to vote for the candidates of the main opposition party. He said voters must not be demoralised by the outcome of the last elections and refused to go and cast their votes. Ashiru, in a statement on Sunday by the PDP Campaign Media and Publicity Deputy Director, Media and Publicity, Reuben Buhari, hailed voters for voting massively for the party during the last elections. In the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections, the PDP won in 14 of the 23 Local Government Areas of the state, leaving the Labour Party with seven and the All Progressives Congress with two LGAs. The PDP also swept the entire three senatorial seats and 10 out of the 16 House of Representatives seats in the state while the APC and LP parted with four and two seats respectively. Consequently, Ashiru said voting for the PDP, irrespective of party differences would ensure freedom for the people under the eight years of APC draconian reign in the state. He said, “If our dream is to have a secure, prosperous Kaduna State, then we owe it to ourselves and our families to resolve to go and vote for the PDP. “Not voting would ensure that more of our people in Kaduna State get sacked with impunity or forcefully retired without them getting their benefits. “Not voting might ensure that labour leaders who decide to legally protect the interest of their members when they would be sacked again, would be hounded and declared wanted like criminals. “Not voting might ensure the continuation of school fees increment in Kaduna’s tertiary institutions without regard to the common man. “Abstaining from voting would continue to see our traditional institutions bastardised without recourse to what the people genuinely desire. “We would continue to witness more demolitions of houses and shops that the common man is using for sustenance; continue to see the forceful seizure of people’s land and continue to witness the most insecure environment that Kaduna currently has become. “Not going out to vote for the PDP would ensure the continuation of these and many more. “With us all strategically closing ranks and putting the result of the past election behind us, we will emerge with enough votes to ensure that the APC never again brings any hardship to the residents of Kaduna state.”