The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance in Ebonyi State, Prof Benard Odoh, says it is strange and sub judice for the police to declare him wanted ahead of the Saturday’s polls. He contended that the move by the police was an attempt to undermine and scuttle his chances of winning the governorship election. The police in Ebonyi had, on Monday, declared Odoh and nine of his supporters wanted, over allegations bothering on murder. Some hoodlums had, last week, reportedly killed the traditional ruler of Umuezeokaoha community in the Ezza North Local Government Area of the state, Igboke Ewa, for supporting ‘a particular’ political party. Odoh hails from this same community. The Ebonyi State Government fingered the APGA gubernatorial candidate in the monarch’s death. He has repeatedly denied the allegation, reiterating that the late traditional ruler was his father and supporter, saying it was ludicrous for anybody to link him to the dastardly incident. In a statement, he personally signed and made available to journalists in Abakaliki, on Tuesday, he said, “My attention has been drawn to a publication by the Nigeria Police Force, Ebonyi State Command, in a letter; AZ: 5200/EBS/DFA/PPRO/VOL.8/249 dated 06/03/2023 and I wish to state and react as follows: “That while I again, sympathise with the family over this very painful, unfortunate and tragic loss, I reiterate my earlier positions in the media that I know nothing, absolutely nothing about the assassination of my traditional ruler, HRH Ezeogo Igboke Ewa of Umuezeokaoha in Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi State and the Chairman of Ezza traditional rulers. “That the allegations against me in the said publication are all false in every material fact, malicious, baseless, spurious and should be totally discountenanced by the general public. For the Nigerian law still presumes an accused person innocent until proven guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction. “That I am not on the run and cannot be said to be on the run for any reason whatsoever but pursuing and seeking the resolution of the false and misleading allegations brought against me through legal and peaceful means. “That the allegations are politically-motivated and intended to undermine my chances of winning this Saturday’s governorship election in Ebonyi State which I am the leading frontliner.” “That I don’t have other inter- personnel relationships or dealings with them except that being an urbane and accomplished figure, some of them look up to me as their role model and mentor “That I have already obtained an Order from the High Court, Owerri in No: HOW/194/2023 dated 3rd day of March, 2023 restraining the police and other security agencies from harassing or arresting me until the matter brought before the court is determined by the court. “That the IGP and other security agencies have been served with the court order accordingly. 