…I remain Oyo LP gov candidate – Akinwale Controversy has trailed the purported endorsement of Governor Seyi Makinde by the Labour Party for reelection in Oyo State. Reports have it that the Chairman of the Labour Party in the state, Mr. Sadiq Atayese, endorsed Makinde during a news conference at the party office, Molete, Ibadan on Sunday. He said Makinde was endorsed due to the similarity of ideology, competence, compassion for the masses and numerous achievements of the governor in many sectors. He said, “The last presidential election was keenly contested by the three major parties in the country and the result of the election as announced by INEC shows that Labour Party is a force to reckon with. “The result of the presidential election in Oyo State is similar to that. While the result of the election in its entirety is still a subject of contention, the takehome of the election is that a third force party that emerged barely a year ago has grown to become a strong force because of the quality of its candidate. “Having considered this, in the upcoming election in our dear state, we have decided to support a candidate with the character, competence, and capacity to lead and who is also concerned about the wellbeing of the citizens as it is obvious that no party can win the governorship election alone. “However, the main priority should be that the citizens win through the emergence of a candidate that best serves their interest.” “Based on this, we have decided to work with the party whose candidate aligns with ours in terms of security, agricultural development, and financial well-being. And it is obvious that the current administration of Seyi Makinde has done this. “And we hereby call on all citizens of Oyo State to vote for him. This decision was taken with serious consideration for the party’s future in the state.” He added that the party structure in the state remained intact as its Assembly candidates across the state were still in the race. When contacted, the governorship candidate of the LP in the state, Tawfiq Akinwale, said he remained the candidate of party. “I remain the candidate of the Labour Party for March 11, 2023 (elections) and my party has never changed that status quo. I do not know anything about the purported adoption. Is he an orphan? By the grace of Almighty God, I am a winner already!” Akinwale said in response to a text message sent by our correspondent. Also, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in the state, Akin Akinwale, in a reaction on Twitter said it was the “hungry faction” of the LP that endorsed Makinde. “After all my uncle did for your party in Oyo State. Anyways, it is the hungry faction of Oyo LP that endorsed Seyi Makinde,” he tweeted.