The immediate past Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Monday, advanced reasons why residents of the state should vote for candidates of All Progressives Congress for the State House of Assembly during Saturday’s poll. This is as he also reiterated his confidence in God that he would return to government as governor. A statement by his spokesperson, Ismail Omipidan, said Oyetola who expressed his strong belief in the efficacy of prayers said he had no doubt whatsoever in his mind to return to power soonest. Oyetola stated this in remarks during the 12th-year remembrance prayers for his late mother, Alhaja Wulemot Oyetola, held at the deceased’s residence in Iragbiji areas of the state. He commended the people of the state for their support and for coming out en masse to elect the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, during the presidential election. He said with APC at the centre, it was important for the people to once again complete what they started by voting for the main opposition party during the weekend’s election. Oyetola said by aligning with the apex government, the state stands to benefit more, adding the elected lawmakers will work for the betterment of the people when he reclaims his mandate, He assured the people of the state of unprecedented development from the progressive government, adding that the president-elect would consolidate on the gains of the progressive government and initiate more unprecedented developmental programmes across the nooks and crannies of the country. He urged the people of the state not to be intimidated but rather to vote massively on Saturday for the candidates of the APC, saying this would go a long way to make things easy for his administration when he returns to power soon. “This yearly remembrance is for us to thank God and beseech Him for forgiveness over my late mother. We want you to continue to pray for us to reclaim our mandate soon. We want our people to win in the next House of Assembly election so that no opposition will be allowed. “We want you to know that APC is the only party that can take us to victory. This is the party that God has made for us. That is where the benefits lie. Please, vote APC all through. If we truly want to benefit from the Federal Government, please, let’s elect our people to the House of Assembly. These are the people that will work with us when we return to government. “We don’t believe in any other thing except prayers. That is what we were brought up with. Let’s continue to pray so that we can thank God in the end.”