The Federal Government, on Thursday, announced the top five business efficient and transparent agencies among its Ministries, Departments and Agencies for the year 2022. It outlined the top five performing MDAs to include the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Standards Organisation of Nigeria, Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council, Nigerian Export-Import Bank, and Corporate Affairs Commission. The government announced this in the 2022 Executive Order 001 Compliance Report, which was released in Abuja by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council. The Special Adviser to the President, Ease of Doing Business/PEBEC Secretary, Jumoke Oduwole, said the report was released in line with PEBEC’s promise to continuously track and keep the business community updated on the compliance with the order on transparency and efficiency in the Nigerian business environment. On May 18, 2017, Executive Order 001 on Transparency and Efficiency in the Business Environment was issued as the current administration’s first executive order to strengthen the implementation of business climate reforms. It was issued to also deepen collaboration among ministries, departments and agencies by instituting a systemic change management process for reforms. The order mandates MDAs to submit monthly reports to the PEBEC secretariat, the Offices of the Head of Service of the Federation, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, as well as SERVICOM. In the last six years, PEBEC has consistently published an EO1 Compliance Report, which captures a periodic empirical analysis of the monthly reports received from MDAs. “According to the latest EO1 Compliance Report which covers January to December 2022, the top five performing MDAs are the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, which emerged first at 81.11per cent; Standards Organisation of Nigeria (2nd, 78.68 per cent),” Oduwole stated. She added, “The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Council (3rd, 68.37 per cent); Nigerian Export-Import Bank (4th, 64.59 per cent); and Corporate Affairs Commission (5th, 63.68 per cent).”