The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji  Sa’ad Abubakar, has congratulated the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, “on your resounding victory during the presidential election and emergence as the President-elect, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” In a congratulatory message, dated March 2, the NSCIA expressed gratitude “to the Almighty Allah for the victory which is a clear manifestation of His immense favours on you (Tinubu) and His preference that you lead our great people and nation at this point in time.” The organisation said Tinubu’s “victory did not actually come to us in the council as a surprise.” “We have followed with keen interest your trajectory in the Nigerian political landscape. We can attest to your track records in public service, your decades of hard work, selflessness, sacrifice, unflagging commitment and dedication to the Nigerian project as well as the excellent interpersonal relationships that you have built across the country over the years,” the NSCIA said in the message signed by its Deputy Secretary-General, Prof. Salisu Shehu. As announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission last Wednesday, Tinubu polled 8,794,726 votes under the All Progressives Congress to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, who had 6,984,520 votes, and Peter Obi of the Labour Party, who had 6,101,533 votes. Atiku and Obi have since rejected the outcome of the poll and have headed to court to challenge Tinubu’s declaration as winner. But expressing confidence in Tinubu’s leadership capacity, the NSCIA said,  “Your Excellency, you are a very experienced human and financial resources manager, a hunter of talents, and an enabler of men and women. You are sui generis among your peers in the encouragement that you constantly give to the Nigerian youths to offer their best in the service of our country. “The council is confident that you would bring to bear your wealth of experience in assembling an all-inclusive team of experts in the administration of our country in a way that would foster unity and peace as well as engender the sustainable development that we all crave.” The council stressed that Tinubu must uphold justice, saying “justice is considered as the hallmark of leadership and a non-negotiable requirement of Islam.” “We urge you, upon assumption of office, to put in place policies and measures that would lead to the large-scale transformation of our country’s economy, security, social infrastructure, and human capital development. “We would like to remind you that as a Muslim in a position of authority, leadership is trust and a lot will also be expected from and demanded of you by the people of this great country.  We, therefore, urge Your Excellency to continue to be good, truthful, honest, fair, transparent, disciplined, prayerful and righteous in the discharge of the duties Allah has entrusted to you because every opportunity is for an appointed term. You can always count on the support and prayers of the NSCIA in this respect,” the council said. It prayed that God would “guide, guard and grant you the wisdom and strength to discharge your duties creditably so as to showcase and enhance the image of Islam by your exemplary conduct and performance.”