The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Wednesday, met with the Igbo community in Benin City, the Edo State capital, to canvass votes for the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Saturday March 11 elections. Obaseki, at a one-day engagement with the Edo South Igbo community, held at the Youth House, Benin City, hailed the Igbo for their continued support for his administration, promising to sustain reforms and projects to ensure better livelihoods for all Edo residents. The governor said, “I am here because you have been a key component of our government. We have done so much with you and will do even more. However, with your support, we know that no one will be able to trouble us. “This election is ours in Edo. We have to vote for those who will work for us. It is important because whatever the governor has to do needs the consent of the members of the House of Assembly. “Last elections, you people gave me all the 24 seats of the House of Assembly though some, due to gullibility, absconded with godfathers. In the same light, I have come to solicit your votes again, to deliver the PDP candidates and not develop apathy towards the election due to the outcome of the presidential election on February 25. “It was clear that the massive turnout of voters in the presidential election was a revolution by the people to express the citizens’ tiredness of the current state of things in the country. However, what happened in the election has created a problem for us in Nigeria but as the issue is still on, we are hoping that the desire of the people must come to fruition.” “Let’s not lament as the opportunity is in our hands. Let’s prove to those who claim to have won the presidential election that Edo is different and Edo is PDP,” the governor charged. Also speaking, the PDP House of Assembly candidate for Oredo West, Amadasun Aisosa, noted, “This Saturday, vote PDP and I promise to always hold quarterly meetings to consult with you for a more robust representation. Let’s disappoint the devices of the opposition who have already started devising ways to create turmoil in the government.” Reacting on behalf of the Igbo community, one of the leaders, Chief Samson Awiaka, hailed the governor for running an inclusive government, adding, “We have never, as an Igbo community in Edo, had it this good in years. Over seven Igbo persons have been appointed as senior special assistants in your administration. “You have brought massive development to the state, rebuilt and renovated the secretariat and restructured the civil service, and ensured speedy completion of various infrastructural projects, among others. You have assured us that we would not have any problem with security, so we will come out with our PVC, vote and deliver the PDP candidates.”