The Federal Government is planning to introduce fertilizer subsidy to farmers in the country, The PUNCH has learnt. This would be done through a programme financed by the African Development Bank and International Fund for Agricultural Development. This disclosure was contained in the IMF’s Selected Issues paper on Nigeria, which was prepared by a staff team of the fund as background documentation for the periodic consultation with the country. The fund noted that the document was based on the information available at the time the report was completed on January 12, 2023. The report noted that the Federal Government had initially introduced an e-voucher for farmers to get subsidised fertilizer, with about 12-14 million farmers getting this e-voucher from 2011 to 2015. It was further noted that the initiative was dropped after the government suffered declining revenue in 2015. However, with some improvement in its revenue, the Federal Government is considering re-introducing this subsidy for farmers to afford fertilizer at an affordable rate. The report read, “Input subsidies were also successfully introduced in Nigeria and are looking to be reintroduced. The e-voucher subsidy scheme was developed during 2011-15 and provided electronic vouchers to farmers to obtain subsidised NPK or urea fertilizer and improved seeds from private sector input retailers. “Internal estimates suggest that between 12-14 million farmers received e-vouchers in total, but the initiative was withdrawn in 2015 as macroeconomic conditions worsened and government revenues declined associated with the dramatic fall in oil prices. “However, a new program based around agricultural special processing zones financed by the African Development Bank and International Fund for Agricultural Development is reintroducing them.” The report also disclosed that the Central Bank of Nigeria has been an active lender to the agriculture sector. It noted that the government has been instrumental in supporting low-interest loans to farmers through the CBN.