The Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media Projects, Crusoe Osagie, has said the recent statement by the former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole on the fate of governor Godwin Obaseki in the Edo State House of Assembly polls exposes Oshiomhole’s insidious plan to oust Obaseki through impeachment. In a statement on Sunday, Osagie expressed confidence that Edo people, as they did in 2020, will again rise in defense of the governor at the polls on Saturday, March 11, and vote massively for the Peoples Democratic Party electing a House controlled by the PDP. Osagie said, “The recent statement by the former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole on the fate of governor Godwin Obaseki in the Edo State House of Assembly polls exposes his insidious plan to oust the current governor through impeachment. “We are, however, confident that, like it happened in 2020 when Edo people stood with the governor despite the bullying and intimidation by Oshiomhole and his paymasters, Edo people will again rise in defence of the governor at the polls on Saturday, March 11; vote massively for the Peoples Democratic Party and elect a House controlled by the PDP. “Obaseki has never placed his confidence in any man or godfather. He has placed his confidence in God and the people.” However, Victor Oshioke, Chief Media aide to Oshiomhole said Obaseki is scared of the looming consequences of his reign of terror. He said, “Godwin Obaseki is a corrosive politician whose attitudes are patently leprous in nature. He contaminates and destroys any party, place, or person that he associates with. “For almost seven years, he has governed Edo State like Herod. Totally insensitive to the aspirations, frustrations, and cries of the people who elected him. “But on February 25, 2023, Edo people unambiguously rejected him and his PDP faction in the Presidential, Senate and House of Representatives polls. For the first time since the return to democracy in 1999, Edo State PDP failed to win any seat in the national assembly, a direct consequence of Godwin Obaseki’s cantankerous, vicious and reckless use of state power to intimidate, oppress, terrorise and pauperise our people.  He added that no man is God and Oshiomhole is not God. He has never pretended to have godly powers, so he cannot install or decree who becomes a member of the House of Assembly but that is left for the electorates to do