Musa Musawa, a veteran Katsina politician and father of the Deputy Spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council, Hannatu, is dead. Musawa, an elder statesman and revered Katsina grassroots politician, died at 85 on Tuesday following a protracted illness. Until his demise, Musawa was a household name in Katsina after his early career as a broadcaster and diplomat before veering into politics. In an exclusive interview with The PUNCH about a month ago, his daughter Hanatu, had described him as an astute politician who shared same ideology as her godfather, late Aminu Kano. She said, “Everyone knows my dad belongs to the school of thought of Aminu Kano, especially with the way he thinks. He was part of the Northern Elements Progressive Union back then in Kano. Maybe I should also say that Aminu Kano was my godfather. And, yes, I obviously grew up seeing my father playing the role of a radical politician. My father is in support of feminism. “Even though we are from Katsina State, which is a conservative part of the country, it was always a matter of a woman can do whatever a man can do if given the opportunity. My father was also in the Foreign Service where he was posted to different parts of the world. Due to the stability that was needed for the family, he took us to the United Kingdom when I was five years old and that was how my siblings and I went to school there.” Reacting to Musawa’s death, Tinubu paid a glowing tribute to his contribution in the defunct Northern Elements Progressive Union to fight for Independence and total liberation of the Nigerian people. In a statement Wednesday morning by his media office, the president-elect also described him as a patriot who had paid his due, especially at the grassroots level. He said, “He was a truly progressive and broadminded statesman. As a young man, he joined forces with like-minded comrades in the defunct Northern Elements Progressive Union to fight for Independence and total liberation of our people. “In the years since independence Alhaji Musa Musawa continued to ally with progressive movements in and outside the realm of politics to advance the course of the poor and oppressed in the society. “He was a progressive politician who paid his dues as a dedicated patriot. Nigeria has lost an illustrious son and we would miss his fatherly counsel at a time we need it the most.”