The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations on Gender Equality, Leadership and Good Governance has advised the Independent National Electoral Commission to do better in future elections having disappointed Nigerians in the February 25 election because of widespread irregularities. The national president of the organisation and Executive Chairperson, Women and Child Disaster Rescue Initiatives, Elizabeth Oziri, told journalists in Abuja that such an exercise should not repeat itself because of the image of the country. According to her, the international community observed the flaws and the country was ridiculed. The session with the media had in attendance the Executive Chairperson of the African Youth Union Commission, Ojineme Enakeme; Rescue Amnesty International Head, Shulamite Nwaoze, and Michelle Peter of Nigeria Female Youth Organisation and Deborah Usman of Women and Child Disaster Rescue initiatives. Oziri said, “We want to say that the electoral process was a bit okay in some of the states. But then some of the domestic and international observers noticed a few situations in some polling units in some local governments that did not go well. “We have also noticed that some of these international observers clearly came out and say the process did not meet international standards but we Nigerians are hoping that with time we will get to where we desire to get. “We hope that it will be better when we try next. Today, a return ticket has been given to one of the presidential candidates.” She, however, encouraged Nigerians, especially the youths to embrace peace “because Nigeria is the only country we have.” “We ask that those who feel cheated, especially the presidential candidates, should go to court. We have faith in our judicial system. We hope that the court will give justice. “The main reason why we are here is to encourage peace, especially political parties, youths and voters to calm down. Because if we fight, we may not achieve anything. “But if we are at peace there is nothing that cannot be resolved. So, please, let me maintain peace and tranquility. And I know that with time, everything will fall into place,” Oziri said.