The governorship candidate of the African Democratic Congress in Cross River State, Mr Effiong Nyong, on Tuesday, called for the people of the state to vote for him on Saturday, saying he represents the hope for the state. Nyong described the administration of the Governor Ben Ayade as a failure. In a statement he personally signed, Nyong said nothing was working in state because governance had been reduced to a nepotistic level, where only people close to the government were appointed as special advisers for “tooth-picking, sleeping and snoring.” He said the All Progressives Congress-led government failed to harness the agricultural, tourism, hospitality and aquatic potential of the state for development. He said, “If the government created employment opportunities, it wouldn’t need to appoint 140 special advisers. Where in the world have you heard a government appoint 140 special advisers? The masses have been impoverished, and young men have been turned to cultists while young ladies have been turned into something else. “The multi-million naira funding accruing monthly from the Bakassi Stabilisation Fund is nowhere to be found. Where is the money which has totalled up to N84bn? This is apart from other statutory funds from the Federal Government. “Bakassi is in ruins today just as other local government areas of the state have been neglected because the government is either lacking the capacity to develop or it is deliberately keeping the people on the ground.” Urging the electorate to vote for him in the March 11 governorship election, the ADC candidate said the age-long belief in politics of structure had crumbled across the country. “It’s a new dawn for the country. Where has structure led them to in Cross River? To defeat, of course! It will lead to further defeat on Saturday, no doubt. The people should troop out to vote for me because I symbolise hope and restoration,” he said. Nyong pointed out that with the largest tropical rainforest in Nigeria and one of the richest continental shelves in the world, the state would be self-sustaining if the potential of the state was explored. “Sadly, what do we have? A state being run without vision and understanding. Cross River needs a new direction and reawakening. I symbolise the new dawn. I call on men and women of honour to heed this clarion call and effect the desired change in Cross River come Saturday,” he stressed.