The governorship candidate of the Labour Party in Abia State, Alex Otti, has vowed to clear all outstanding workers’ salaries and pensions before the end of December 2023 if elected governor. Otti, a renowned banker and economist spoke at Uzuakoli in Bende Local Government Area on Sunday during an interactive session with members of the Alex Otti support group in the area. He lamented that the Peoples Democratic Party-led government had continued to owe workers and retirees many months of salary and pension arrears. Otti also revealed that medical doctors under the state employ recently embarked on indefinite strike for non-payment of salary arrears of over 25 months. He expressed regret that Uzuakoli, being a prominent community in the state was deliberately underdeveloped by successive governments. He promised that under his watch as governor of Abia state, Uzuakoli, would take a place of pride as he would work to implement the town’s masterplan which has been confined to the shelves. He said, “We are not going back on our campaign promise to rebuild the economy of Abia state through industrialisation, creation of wealth and jobs, improve the human capital of the workforce in the civil service and pay all outstanding salaries and pensions owed by the government, before the end of December 2023. “We urge you all not to be discouraged by the non-declaration of Peter Obi as the winner of the presidential election held on February 25, 2023, as it is not yet over because Obi has sworn to reclaim his mandate.” The economist also assured that Peter Obi would reclaim his mandate stating that Obi has a history ofalways bouncing back to reclaim his mandate. He went on to call on Abians to troop out en mass and vote for Labour Party in the March 11, 2023 governorship and State Assembly elections. “When we do this, we would have completed the redeeming of our state from the hands of those who have underdeveloped it for 24 years and then we will begin the process of restoration and redevelopment again,” he promised. Recall that Otti led the Labour Party to win six out of the eight Federal Constituency seats and one out of three senatorial slots during the February 25 National Assembly election. Earlier in his remarks, the convener, Alex Otti, support group, Rev Okechukwu Obioha, said that the communities making up the group have resolved to vote only Otti and the LP Bende South House of Assembly candidate Chijioke Nwankwo, for the governorship and House of Assembly elections on March 11, 2023.