The governorship Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in Plateau State, Caleb Mutfwang, has revealed that 80 per cent of the people who voted for the Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, in the state were members of the PDP. Mutfwang made this known when he appeared on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily programme on Tuesday. The governorship candidate noted that the people of Plateau State preferred Obi for the presidency but that they want the PDP for the governorship seat. Recall that Obi won Plateau State with 466,272 votes ahead of both the PDP and the All Progressives Congress, who polled 243,808 and 307,195 votes respectively. The people of Plateau State voted for the LP candidate despite having a two-term governor of the state, Simon Lalong, as the Director General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council. Mutfwang, however, noted that the movement for LP in the state was about Obi as a person and not LP as a party. He said, “80 per cent of the people who voted for Peter Obi are members of the PDP. After that, they are reverting to the status quo because they only went after Mr Peter Obi because they believed in him. I can assure you that the people of Plateau State believe in us and will vote for us. “The Peter Obi phenomenon was an expression of anger with the failure of governance, nationally. People truly want change and many people found expression in the candidature of Mr Peter Obi but beyond that, local dynamics come into play. “With due respect, the Labour Party does not exist on the Plateau. It was a movement gathered around Mr Obi and some people tried to take advantage of that movement to key in but the National Assembly election proved which party is on ground and which party the people prefer.” He further noted that only the ruling APC and not the LP stand a chance against the PDP in the March 11 governorship poll. “The contest for the governorship, If I will bring any other party to contention, it will be the APC, not the Labour Party,” he said.