The Catholic Diocese of Awka has distanced itself from the teaching of a priest of the diocese, Rev. Fr. Cajethan Obiekezie, for preaching against the Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo and candidates of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, during a sermon. Obiekezie, in his sermon last Sunday, had criticised Soludo for standing against the election of the Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. The priest had also called on the parishioners to vote against all candidates of APGA. But reacting to the development, the Awka Catholic Diocese in a press statement by the Diocesan Chancellor, Rev. Fr. Charles Ndubuisi, dissociated itself from Obiekezie’s utterances, saying the priest does not have the mandate of the diocese to do so. The statement, titled, “The recent homilies of Rev. Fr. Cajethan Obiekezie: A disclaimer”, was made available to journalists in Awka on Saturday. It read, “The attention of the Catholic Diocese of Awka has been drawn to the recent homilies of Rev. Fr. Cajethan Obiekezie, which has gone viral on social media where he made some unnecessary utterances capable of destroying the long-lasting relationship we have enjoyed with the Anglican communion in Anambra State and also capable of overheating the polity. “There were some utterances against the governor of the state, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo and other politicians within and outside the state. ‘The Catholic diocese of Awka wishes to disassociate herself completely from those utterances. Rev. Fr. Cajethan Obiekezie has no mandate of the diocese of Awka, to do so. “The diocese will take the necessary steps to continue to teach her priests the sanctity of the pulpit and will not hesitate to apply sanctions where necessary. The statement also noted that the Church has the inherent right, independent of any human authority, to preach the gospel to all people, for it is the Church that Christ the Lord has entrusted the deposit of faith(can.747). However, this inherent right must be exercised within the laid down rules and regulations. In the context of Mass, the rules of homiletics should necessarily apply (cann.768 &1,2, 769, 772&1). “Therefore, the platform offered by the pulpit cannot be used for personal sentiments and verbal attack, capable of destroying anybody’s good name.”  