 The Kano State Commissioner of Police, CP Muhammad Yakubu, on Wednesday, confirmed the  arrest of the Majority Leader, House of Representatives, Alhassan Doguwa, for alleged complicity in electoral violence recorded in Tudun Wada Local Government Area of the state, in the just concluded general elections. The PUNCH reported on Tuesday that Doguwa was arrested at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport while boarding a flight to Abuja. In a statement by the command’s Spokesperson, SP Abdullahi Haruna, he disclosed the reason for Doguwa arrest to be failure to honour invitation. “Following complaints received on the gruesome murder of three persons, causing grievous injury to eight others in Tudun Wada LGA on 26/02/2023 while the collation of election results was ongoing and an alleged viral video of some victims with suspected gunshots in the social media, the Commissioner of Police in charge of 2023 general election, Kano state, CP Muhammad Yakubu directed the State Criminal Investigation Department, Kano state police command to carry out a thorough investigation. “In continuation of the investigation, on February 27, 2023, the department extended a formal invitation to Honourable Alhassan Ado Garba Doguwa, a member representing Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency for his alleged complicity in the incident. Sequel to his refusal to honour the invitation, the Command was left with no other option than to activate a motion that would lead to his arrest. “He was subsequently arrested by detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department, Bompai Kano at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano,” part of the statement read. He said disclosed Dogunwa will be arraigned before the court for a suspected case of criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, causing grievous hurt, mischief by fire, and inciting disturbance. “Investigation is ongoing, the suspects arrested will soon be charged to court for prosecution, and the effort to get others at large is being intensified. It added, “While the Commissioner of Police appreciates the good people of Kano state for their peaceful conduct in maintaining law and order during the just concluded presidential and National Assembly elections and its aftermath, the command is reiterating its commitment to safeguarding lives and properties. “Accordingly, the CP demonstrated his willingness to tame any subversive element(s) or actor(s) no matter how highly placed, if they are out to disrupt the existing peaceful atmosphere being enjoyed in the state.”