Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Wednesday, celebrated his 66th birthday at the North-East Children’s Trust and the Learning Centre, in Borno State. The Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement he signed on Wednesday titled, ‘Osinbajo marks 66th birthday in Borno with restored northeast “Insurgency Orphans”, who call him daddy.’ The North-East Children’s Trust is a private sector-led charity and social engineering initiative incorporated in 2017 with a mission to create innovative, transformational sustainable learning ecosystems that will nurture, renew and empower vulnerable children between ages five and 18 years, who have become orphans as a result of the insurgency in North-East. The NECT has provided comprehensive support to 686 orphaned and vulnerable children through accommodation, feeding, quality education and rehabilitative psychosocial support. Osinbajo, who began his day with a quiet morning devotion service at his Aguda House residence in the Presidential Villa, proceeded to Borno alongside his wife, Dolapo. On arrival at the Nigerian Air Force Base, Maiduguri, the VP was received by Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, who was accompanied by his wife, Falmata Zulum, and other top government officials. He then proceeded to the NECT Learning Centre where children of the institution had a lineup of activities to mark the day. There, Osinbajo reassured the staff and children of the institution of his commitment to continue providing world-class facilities that would make them the best among their peers, regardless of the prevailing socioeconomic conditions. “All of you children, who are here, one thing that is very certain is that, God giving me good health and preserving my life, I will ensure that you get the very best. “However it is, we will do everything possible to make sure that you get the very best, because that is the promise and pledge that we made when we started,” Osinbajo said. Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Wednesday, commended Osinbajo, for a sterling service to the nation, as he turns 66. In a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said Osinbajo has served the country “as an academic, Attorney-General of Lagos State (1997-2007), and Vice President (2015 till date).” The statement said Buhari applauded the deft way Osinbajo, a pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God, has combined scholarship with governance, and pastoral work, commending such “dedication to the younger generation whom the Number Two man serves as a torchbearer to.” Similarly, the President-elect, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, congratulated the Vice President on Wednesday. In a statement by his media officer, Tunde Rahman, Tinubu applauded Osinbajo’s administrative skills and professional accomplishments as an academic and erudite lawyer. He said, “As the Vice President of our country, Prof Osinbajo has partnered very well with our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, to deliver on the progressive programmes of our party to make life better for Nigerians especially in areas of massive infrastructural development and life-changing Social Investment Programmes.”