The Imo State Government has described as laughable a statement credited to the state Chairman of Labour Party, Festus Onyekwulisi, where he boasted that LP will sack the state governor, Hope Uzodimma, during the November 11 governorship election in the state. The Special Adviser to the governor on Public Communications, Collins Ughalaa, in a statement in Owerri, advised LP to first put its house in order before thinking of how to unseat Uzodimma whom he described as “a performing governor.” Ughalaa said that every resident of the state was in agreement that Uzodimma had done well and deserved a reelection. The statement read, “As of yesterday, March 10, 2023, the supposed leaders of the Labour Party in Imo State were still fighting over the imposition of a caretaker committee. While those who think the imposition favours them insist it must stand, those who believe that imposition has no place in a constitutional democracy like ours say it must not stand. We are just watching from a distance. “Backed by some other leaders in the party, the erstwhile Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Alvan Opara, issued a disclaimer, saying that the deposed chairman of the party, Ambrose Onyekwere, was on his own. He said the State Working Committee of the party remains intact and not dissolved, and that members of the party should not attend any meeting convened by Festus Onyekwulisi and his cohorts. “In another bizarre development, 18 notable leaders of the party, including nine governorship aspirants, rejected the imposition of a caretaker committee, describing it as ill-timed and lacking in proper consultation.” “In a protest letter signed by Senator Chris Anyanwu (and others) on Thursday, March 9, 2023, said the imposed caretaker committee ‘has been causing much consternation among party faithful’ and causing damage to the party. They called for the immediate suspension of the imposed caretaker committee. “The imposed caretaker committee chairman, Festus Onyekwulisi, in an effort to justify his imposition, boasted before journalists that the Labour Party would sack Governor Hope Uzodimma, during the next election, and such other mumbo-jumbo excited people could say. No doubt, Mr. Onyekwulisi is sleep-walking and not in tune with reality. If he had asked those who imposed him, they would have told him he was embarking on a journey of the impossible.” Mocking the Imo State chapter of the Labour party over the “imposed caretaker committee,” the special adviser said “there is no democracy in the Labour Party in Imo.” adding that the imposition of the caretaker committee is just one of the many strategies to “impose a governorship candidate on the party. The primary election in the Labour Party will be just a formality – to pretend to be democratic.” “By the special will of God, Governor Hope Uzodimma is seated like the Rock of Gibraltar, and no boastful claim made under exuberance can remove him. Hope Uzodimma and Imo people are like 5 and 6 – they are intertwined, like conjoined twins, and cannot be severed by mere hallucinations. “Imo people needed a prudent, performing governor, and they got it all in Uzodimma. What has the governor not done? He has brought an infrastructure revolution in Imo, something never seen since 1999. In the midst of politically contrived insecurity, he is busy making a way where there used to be none. Mr. Onyekwulisi and his cohorts should ask people who live at MCC Road, Dick-Tiger Road, Chukwuma Nwaoha Road, Ihechiuwa Road, Relief Market Road, how they feel. “They should ask those whose properties were saved from perennial flooding by Governor Uzodimma’s balloon technology, how they feel. They should ask those who ply the Owerri-Orlu, Owerri-Okigwe Road, Egbu-Mbaise-Umuahia Road, Port Harcourt Road, Muhammadu Buhari Road, and over 90 other roads, how they feel. They should ask Imo workers how they feel after the governor lifted a decades-long embargo on their promotions. “These are the tasks the Labour Party should be doing now and not hallucinate before media cameras, and when they are done, we would be glad to welcome them into the ring. After their first baptism by failure, they can look back and see whether they have a party or not. For now, they should continue to enjoy their hallucinations. We will cross that bridge when we come to it, and they will see their cookies crumble before them,” he added.