The presidential candidate of the African Action Congress, Omoyele Sowore, has said the Nigerian political system is not favourable to the youths. Sowore, who said his early days of activism were a part of what led to Nigeria’s democracy, claimed that those in the military government in the 90s, “who were chased out, are now back in government,” saying the democracy turned out to be fake. Speaking on the topic ‘Why youths don’t participate in Nigeria politics’ in an interview with Super Screen TV on Thursday, Sowore also said he didn’t like to be called a politician, saying, “A lot of politicians lies and sugarcoats, that’s why I don’t like to be called a politician because it makes me feel I’m part of them.” He said he was different in character, made sacrifices, and had scars to show for those sacrifices. “Nigerian people gained democracy as a result of my activism. That was the most important thing when I was young. The goal was to drive the military out, however, it is very disappointing that the democracy turned out to be fake.” Sowore said the people that were driven out in the 90s are now back, citing the example of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who was the head of state in 1984 and still the President in 2023. “Young people in Nigeria are limited in politics because the designed system wouldn’t allow young people to make progress,” Sowore said in response to a question about why young people were limited in politics. “In 1925, young people created the Nigerian youth movement to fight for independence; people like Herbert Macaulay, and Okoli, young women of then, are not excluded. Over time, young people are being relegated to the background and now, young people are being engaged in thuggery,” he said. “Young people are running abroad to find greener pastures. What society does to its young people is to educate them, provide other opportunity for people who are not interested in school, provide jobs, that’s how to get society developed,” he said.