The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council has said attempts at damage control by the All Progressives Congress for its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, will not save him from defeat at the polls. The PDP PCC said having seen that Tinubu and the APC had lost the presidential election, the ruling party was looking for who to blame. Citing the lingering fuel crisis and the concerns among Nigerians over the redesign of the naira, Tinubu had while speaking at the APC presidential campaign held at the MKO Abiola stadium, Kuto, Abeokuta, Ogun State, on Wednesday said there was a plan to sabotage the coming election. The APC presidential candidate came under fire over his comment, which the opposition considered as an indictment on the ruling APC and the Federal Government. However, the Director, Media and Publicity of APC PCC, Bayo Onanuga, dismissed the notion that the comment of the ruling party’s candidate was targeted at the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Onanuga, in a statement, said Tinubu was only directing the government’s attention to the sabotage being carried out by “some fifth columnists in the system, possibly working in cahoots with the PDP”. But speaking with our correspondent, a spokesperson for the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council, Mr Charles Aniagwu, said “Bayo Onanuga should look for someone else to blame. “Nigerians were the ones who listened to Tinubu. They were the ones who made meaning out of what he said. “Nobody misunderstood him. It is damage control but it is obvious that because they have lost the election, they are looking for whom to accuse.” Similarly, the Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council said Tinubu’s comment at the rally in Abeokuta showed the alleged plot by the APC to subvert the rule of law and deny the Nigerians the right to choose their leaders. The spokesman for the Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council, Yunusa Tanko, added, “This is an unbecoming position by this particular character. Remember that some of them (APC) also challenged the issue of the use of BVAS for accreditation. “Of course, this is an attempt at damage control. This is something that has been consistent with them. Nigerians have seen their misdeeds. They have put it in practical terms and Nigerians have seen that they intend to manipulate the system against the people’s will and subvert the rule of law.”