The Permanent Secretary, State House, Tijjani Umar, on Tuesday, in Abuja, said a conducive work environment is critical for quality service delivery. Umar spoke at the reopening of the renovated State House Canteen which had been closed in the wake of the COVID-19 Pandemic. The State House Director, Information, Abiodun Oladunjoye, disclosed this in a statement he signed late Tuesday titled ‘Conducive work environment critical for quality service delivery, says Permanent Secretary, State House.’ The Permanent Secretary noted that enhanced welfare was vital for staff to give their best in service delivery and commitment to work. He said the reopening of the canteen with its upgraded facilities was in line with Management’s desire to provide staff with conducive work environment that would engender efficiency and productivity. “The renovation of the canteen and its reopening today is in line with so many other things that we are doing or have done in the State House and I would like to mention a few of them; Just recently, the Data Centre of the State House was completely renovated. “I am sure that whoever knew the level of dilapidation of the Centre will definitely appreciate the facility the way it is looking today. “We are also moving very fast to renovate the Conference Visitors Unit, now the Conference Coordination Unit, to a one-stop shop of a modern fleet – hub where we can run the State House Conference Coordination Unit in a modern way, supported by technology. “We have also created an enabling environment where people who work hard are first and foremost, identified and appreciated and then rewarded,” Umar stated. The Permanent Secretary said that within available resources, the State House management have organised training programmes for various departments. This, he said, had equipped staff members with the requisite training to enhance their productivity, including over 100 drivers who have benefitted from the scheme. Umar thanked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for providing exemplary leadership and the enabling environment for State House management and staff to discharge their responsibilities seamlessly. In his address, the Director of Maintenance, Joshua Apagu, recalled that on assumption of office, the Permanent Secretary had directed that the canteen be enhanced. The renovation and upgrade of the canteen, Apagu said, was a milestone towards bringing State House facilities up to standard.
Meanwhile, the Chairman, Trade Union Joint Council, State House, Oladunjoye Olasupo, commended the Permanent Secretary for his commitment to enhancing staff welfare.