The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria has asked the Federal Government to make petrol available at the official pump price of 180/litre, saying Nigerians cannot continue to pay for the product at higher prices. In a New Year message made available to our correspondent in Abuja, the labour union stated that the year 2022 was quite challenging in virtually all fronts including security, politics, economy, health and social life. It, however, said that there “is hope for a glorious 2023 if we are ready to birth the necessary change and hold our leaders accountable as Nigeria we earnestly desire can only be achieved through collective struggle.” The statement read in part, “The TUC rejects the clamour by some politicians and political office holders to continue the importation of petroleum products at prohibitive costs while simultaneously, campaigning and making moves to stop fuel subsidy.  Politicians who love Nigerians would first return the country to local refining thereby creating mass jobs and making the products cheap, accessible and available before contemplating the removal of fuel subsidies. “We also demand that the Buhari government ensures that PMS is available and sold at the official pump price in fuel stations. The emergent culture of selling such highly inflammable commodities in jerry cans on street corners and residential houses must be stopped.” The union recalled that the life of the Nigerian masses was made more difficult by hyperinflation which notched above 20 per-cent, the misery index which soared to an all-time high, hydra-headed unemployment and numerous unfulfilled promises. Speaking further, the TUC decried the high level of insecurity and inflation, saying “the war against banditry, terrorism and sectarian violence must be total and uncompromising.” It added, “There should also be a general mobilisation of the populace in this war that must be won for our country to survive. We warn against attempts in some quarters to rebrand criminals and terrorists as freedom fighters or treat them with kid gloves. We, therefore, demand that insecurity be tackled by all means including mobilizing the citizenry to defend themselves against bandits and terrorists. “Inflation has eroded the purchasing power of Nigeria workers, the minimum wage has been further deleted and the value of naira has become worthless.”