The Defence Headquarters has assured stakeholders that elections in the southeastern part of the country would be held in a peaceful atmosphere. The military high command added that there were similar challenges during the 2019 polls, but the election was held, stating that this year wouldn’t be an exception. The region has been ravaged by insecurity linked to the Indigenous People of Biafra, who attacked security formations as well as the facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission in the region. Addressing journalists at the biweekly briefing of the military on Thursday, the Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Musa Danmadami, disclosed that the military had “rejuvenated” operations in the region. He said, “Operations are already going in the South East; the operations have been rejuvenated. We have both kinetic and non-kinetic in place. During the last election, all these happened and elections went on in the region, the same thing will happen in 2023. We cannot deny there won’t be one or two incidents, but elections will happen in the southeast and any other region of the country.” On the miscalculated airstrikes that happened in quick succession in Nasarawa and Niger, the military said it would refrain from commenting on the matter to avoid getting involved in anyone’s issues. Danmadami also said there are no territories in the country under the control of terrorists. He said, “There is no territory under the control of the terrorists. Yes, we have pockets of them in several parts of the country, and that is why we conduct operations daily. On Election Day, the armed forces of Nigeria will continue to remain apolitical. The police are the lead agency when it comes to elections in Nigeria, but we will continue to play our supportive roles.” Danmadami stressed that troops have been given a code of conduct to guide their participation in the election, warning that any soldier found culpable would be dealt with. He said, “We have distributed the code of conduct among our troops. I can assure you that any unwanted act will be dealt with decisively. You all were witnesses to the previous elections. The election came and went, so there is no difference between that election and this one. Let us be positive, that nothing is going to happen, and I can assure you that this country belongs to all of us.”