• Dissolves Ekiti chapter exco The Peoples Democratic Party has suspended some chieftains of the party in Ekiti, Enugu and Imo states over allegations of anti-party activities. The party, late Friday, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, announced the suspension of the party chieftains including Emiola Jennifer, Ajayi Samuel, Olayinka Olalere, Akerele Oluyinka and John Fayose. Others are Ayeni Funso and Ajijola Oladimeji. Suspended from Enugu State is former Governor Chimaroke Nnamani, and Chris Ogbu from Imo State. Ologunagba stated that the suspensions were with effect from Friday, January 20, 2023. The statement read in part, “The National Working Committee NWC, of the PDP has, after a very extensive review and consideration of the affairs of our Party in the country, pursuant to the provisions of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017) approved the suspension of Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, Enugu State, and Chris Ogbu Imo State, with effect from today, Friday, January 20, 2023, over allegations of anti-party activities. “In the same vein, the NWC has approved the suspension of the underlisted Party members in Ekiti State also with effect from today, Friday, January 20, 2023, over allegations of anti-party activities. “The suspended members in Ekiti State are; Ayeni Funso – Ekiti North; Ajijola Oladimeji – Ekiti Central. Others are; Emiola Jennifer – Ekiti South II; Ajayi Samuel – Ekiti North II; Olayinka James Olalere – Ekiti Central; Akerele Oluyinka – Ekiti North I; and Fayose Oluwajomiloju John – Ekiti Central I.” In a related development, the PDP has also dissolved the executive members of its Ekiti State chapter. The party’s spokesperson, who confirmed this also in a statement on Friday night, stated, “The NWC also approved the appointment of Sadiq Obanoyen as chairman of the state party’s caretaker committee. He noted: “The National Working Committee, NWC after careful deliberations and extensive consultations, on behalf of the National Executive Committee NEC, and pursuant to Sections 29(2)(b) and 31(2)(e) of the Constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017), has dissolved the PDP Ekiti State Executive Committee with immediate effect. “In its place the NWC, on behalf of NEC has approved the appointment of Ekiti State Caretaker Committee to run the affairs of the Party in the State for a period of three (3) months effective from today Friday, January 20, 2023 and to function pursuant to Section 24 (2) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017). “The PDP advises all leaders, critical stakeholders and teeming members of our Party across the country to remain united and focused on the mission of our Party to Rescue, Rebuild and Redirect our nation from misrule.”