A couple, Taiwo Ajalorun and Salawa Ajalorun, and six others have been arrested by men of Ogun State Police Command for allegedly selling human parts. The suspects who had allegedly killed three persons before they were arrested reportedly sold legs for N30,000 and human heart for N50,000 to their buyers who used them for money rituals. The command’s Police Public Relations Officer, SP Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed this incident on Thursday. Oyeyemi who stated this in a statement said the couple and six other suspects; Lukman Oladele, Kayode Ibrahim, Bello Akeem, Alebiosu Adebayo, Fatai Rasheed and Fatai Jimoh were arrested on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said they were arrested for kidnapping, killing and dismembering of a 26-year-old mother of two, Oyindamola Adeyemi. He said the suspects were apprehended following a report lodged at Obalende divisional headquarters; Ijebu-Ode by one Ojo Omolara. According to Oyeyemi, Omolara reported that her neighbour, Oyindamola Adeyemi, left home on the morning of Wednesday 28th of December 2022 but didn’t return home and her phone has since then been switched off. “Since it is not 24 hours, she was advised to come back. But the following day, being 29th of December 2022, while patrol team from Obalende division was on routine patrol, a dismembered body of a lady was discovered by the roadside and the body was taken to a mortuary. “Fortunately, the mortuary is a stone’s throw from the house of the deceased and one of the mortuary workers, who knew about the missing person, called the attention of the deceased family to come and have a look at the body brought by the police. “On getting there, the deceased friend, Ojo Omolara was able to identify it through the bra and underwear she put on since her head was already chopped off. “Having recognized the body, the DPO Obalende division, Murphy Salami, mobilised his crack detectives and embarked on a technical and intelligence-based investigation which led them to Taiwo Olutufese Ajalorun an herbalist whose possession the deceased Itel phone was recovered. “He was promptly arrested, and a search warrant was duly executed in his house, where a container full of human blood later discovered to be that of the deceased was recovered. “His arrest led to the apprehension of his friend, Lukman Oladele, whose house the legs of the deceased were also recovered.” The PPRO added that during interrogation, the duo mentioned the buyers of the human parts of their victims and were promptly arrested. He said the herbalist with the support of his friend lured the deceased to his house being his lover and as soon as she entered, she was pinned down by both of them and strangled to death. Oyeyemi said the suspects confessed that “after killing her, they cut off the head, legs and the two hands which they sold to their standby buyers to be used for money-making rituals. “According to them, the legs of the deceased were sold at the rate of #30,000, while the heart was sold at the rate of #50,000 to Akeem Bello, while the person who bought the head is still at large. “The suspects confessed further that the victim was the third person they have killed in such a gruesome manner.” The PPRO, however, said the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation Departments for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.