The Edo State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Obehi Akoria, has said that about 2000 residents have benefited from the Edo State Government’s organised medical outreach for residents of Esan West Local Government Area. Akoria also disclosed on Thursday that the medical outreach was part of efforts by Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to improve the health and well-being of Edo people. The outreach was organised by the Edo State Government through the Ministry of Health with support from the Head of Local Government Administration in Esan West. Prof. Akoria said the beneficiaries received world-class healthcare services from over 200 volunteers and healthcare professionals in different areas of medical practice including Internal Medicine, Dermatology, Ophthalmology, Child Health, Obstetrics and Gynaecology (ObGyn), Nursing, Laboratory Science, Pharmacy, Health Promotion/Education and Community Health, among others. She noted that the residents, including youths, elderly women and men, and vulnerable persons, benefited from the free cervical and breast cancer screening, free eye screening and glasses, family planning services, and tests for Hepatitis A, B, and C, among others. She said, “We are glad with the huge success recorded at the just-concluded medical outreach organised by the government for residents of Esan West LGA. “The outreach is part of the government’s efforts to enhance the health and wellbeing of all citizens, ensuring that quality and efficient healthcare services get to the grassroots and underserved areas in the state. “We are pleased with the turnout of both residents and volunteers. While we had over 200 volunteers and other health professionals, over 2000 clients were served, resulting in over 3,500 patient encounters, as most patients had at least two clinical screening and/or treatment encounters. “Free eyeglasses and medicines were dispensed; there were family planning (FP) services with the distribution of free FP commodities; tests for Hepatitis A, B, and C as well as breast and cervical cancer screening—some cases were detected, among others. “We are confident that this outreach aimed at further raising awareness on the need for constant medical checkups among residents will complement the government’s efforts at ensuring a resilient healthcare system for quality and efficient healthcare delivery.”