The Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Folasade Ogunsola, has promised to ensure that the institution becomes a solution centre. Speaking on Tuesday during her investiture as the institution’s13th VC, Ogunsola explained that she plans to make UNILAG future-ready and enhance the intellectual quality of our students. She said, “We are committed to making UNILAG a solution centre. My strategic plan is to make UNILAG future-ready, yielding inquiring minds, discoveries, sound character, and a globally impactful workforce while addressing the developmental needs of today which are centred around 10 core goals. “The ultimate goal is to enrich and enhance the quality of our students to make them more intellectually nimble, competent not only for national development but to shape the future.” Ogunsola added that innovations in the university systems would lead to the development of Nigeria. “If Nigeria’s university system will be returned to its rightful place as the lighthouse that inspires our development aspirations, we must begin to think anew, roll up our sleeves, and walk the talk. This renaissance in our country’s development will, by the grace of God, be inspired by the innovation in its university systems in particular the University of Lagos. “We enjoin all stakeholders to come with us on this journey. Let us become the knowledge and innovation hub of Africa and the world with our own distinctive and unique flavour! I believe that we will be unbeatable!” she said. The Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, congratulated Ogunsola for making history as the first female VC of UNILAG. Rasheed, who was represented by Dr Chris Maiayaki, said, “The commission notes with excitement and a deep sense of fulfilment that history is being made in the University of Lagos with the investiture of Prof Folasade Ogunsola as the first female to occupy this exalted office after over 60 years of its establishment. “While congratulating her and the entire University community, we have cause to believe that her tenure will be marked by significant achievements of national and international pride.” The Pro-Chancellor of UNILAG, Dr Lanre Tejuoso, described the appointment of Ogunsola as a divine decision, adding that she is an excellent academic and amazon in her area of specialisation. He said, “When the council decided on October 7, 2022, to appoint her, I knew we made a divine decision. Eminent scholars applied for the job, the selection process was seamless and transparent. She is an academic and amazon in her area of specialisation. She was the first female Provost of the College of Medicine, the first female DVC Management Services, first female acting Vice-Chancellor. “ Eminent personalities at the event included the VC’s husband,  Mr Olusegun Ogunsola; her mother, Justice Titilola Mabogunje (retd.); former President Olusegun Obasanjo; Chairman Emeritus, Punch Nigeria Limited, Chief Ajibola Ogunshola; his wife, Iyabo; Obi of Onitsha, Alfred Achebe; and wife of former VC of the university, Christie Ade-Ajayi.