The Caretaker Committee of the People’s Democratic Party, Kano State chapter, on Saturday accused the former chairman of the dissolved state executives, Shehu Sagagi, of flouting court order by still parading himself as the caretaker chairman. The Kano PDP caretaker committee secretary, Bala Aliyu, made the disclosure in Kano on Saturday, while briefing newsmen on current developments in the Kano PDP, insisting that there was no faction in the party. To this end, he said the committee has filed a petition to the police and the Department of State Services for criminal impersonation against Sagagi’s action, which was capable of resulting in a breach of peace in Kano State. Aliyu said, “We have filed a petition to the police and to the DSS for criminal impersonation against Sagagi. “We have set the machinery in motion to trigger contempt proceedings against whosoever is parading himself against the judgment of the valid judgment of the Court of Appeal. “The PDP at the national headquarters has the power to produce its own candidates to contest for general elections. “In this case, where some people either in the state or local government level do it on their own, there are on their own. “In a situation where there is a subsisting court order, which empowers the PDP at the national level to appoint a caretaker Committee in Kano PDP, as it derives the powers from the National headquarters, anybody who decide to do otherwise is disobeying court order. “The said Shehu Wada Sagagi-led executives filed an appeal before the Supreme Court of Nigeria, which has     been adjourned to the 20th of November, 2023 for hearing. “The issue is when the NWC dissolved the Sagagi-led committee after the exit of Kwankwaso, Sagagi went to the Federal High Court, which set aside the Caretaker appointed by the NWC it left. “The National Working Committee complied with the court order, which it appealed and the Court of Appeal set aside the judgment of the Federal High Court and reinstated the power of the NWC to dissolve the State chapter, as provided by the constitution of the party when the need arises. “The effect of the Court of Appeal judgment is that it gave rise to the appointment of the current committee. “How can a responsible citizen flout the valid judgment of the Court of Appeal? In that direction, we are law abiding and have, therefore, filed a petition to the police and to the DSS for criminal impersonation against Sagagi. “We have set the machinery in motion to trigger contempt proceedings against whosoever is parading himself against the judgment of the valid judgment of the Court of Appeal.”