The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II, on Sunday visited the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Effurun in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State, with a charge to Christians to always show gratitude to God in all circumstances. The Ooni spoke at the Redemption Hall Parish of the RCCG while participating in the Thanksgiving service, marking the 50th birthday of the wife of notable Warri Prince Yemi Emiko, Princess Kathy. Other royalties at the Thanksgiving service included the Ovie of Agbon kingdom, Ogurime-rime Ukori I, Michael Omeru, and the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwaste lll, represented by some of his chiefs. The Deputy President of the Senate and Delta State governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, was represented by his running mate, Rt Hon. Friday Osanebi. Also in attendance at the birthday reception was former Governor of Delta State, Chief James Onanefe Ibori; Delta South senator, Senator James Manager; member representing Warri Federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Thomas Ereyitomi. Addressing the congregation, the Ooni disclosed that he was a “deeply rooted” member of the RCCG and hoped it remained so. He expressed delight at the love between the celebrant and her husband noting that it was significant of God’s goodness. The monarch briefly led the congregation in an old gospel song, ‘Every living soul praise the Lord,’ stressing that being alive is enough reason to praise God. The Ooni said, “The mere fact that you are alive is enough to praise God Almighty. God is real and that is why I’m here today to celebrate with Pastor Kathy; to celebrate with the family of Prince Yemi Emiko. “In every situation you find yourself, put God first and be happy. Today gives you an opportunity to make people around you smile.” Also addressing the gathering while giving a vote of thanks, Yemi Emiko, an APC chieftain, thanked the Ooni of Ife, Ovie of Agbon, among other dignitaries for gracing the service. Emiko stated that his wife, Kathy has, among other life lessons, taught him the art of “sacrifice” and had been a source of “stability” since they have been married. He explained that but for an emergency, the Olu of Warri and Senator Omo-Agege would have been present at the event. Highlight of the service showed the celebrant, accompanied by her husband, children, other family members and friends, dancing heartily, as gospel songs were raised in thanks to God.