…says mob sponsored by politicians, terror sympathisers The Presidency on Tuesday accused the main opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party, of allegedly latching onto “fake reports” about the stoning of the President’s convoy in Kano putting the All Progressives Congress at loggerheads with the Federal Government. In a statement signed late Tuesday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the Presidency argued that the mob spotted in a widely circulated video footage were “innocent children sponsored by politicians and terrorist sympathisers.” The statement is titled ‘PDP’s sad celebration of the false news of Kano stone-pelting of the President.’ Late Monday, the PDP condemned the attack on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) in Kano saying the attack was allegedly sponsored by the Presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Tinubu. “Our Party is alarmed that this attack is part of the APC presidential candidate’s alleged plot to undermine the Presidency, cause confusion, trigger violence in the country, disrupt the conduct of the 2023 general elections and derail our democracy, having realised that he cannot win in a peaceful, free and fair electoral process,” the main opposition said in a statement signed by its spokesperson, Debo Ologunagba. But the Presidency disagrees. It said “The divisive rhetoric of an opposition in a futile attempt to malign the image of the President and the candidates of the All Progressives Congress in the coming elections,  and its desperate wedge-driving activities to cause a division between the party and the government is not what will give them victory. “A so-called leading opposition party that controls 14 states, going into elections with eight or nine of the states in tow should look inwards to see why their campaign is flagging and destined to fail. “Their defeat is a foretold story by many discerning individuals.” According to the Presidency facts from the law enforcement agencies speak of a clash in Hotoro between the local road transport authorities, the Kano Road Transport Authority and thugs hired by a yet-to-be-identified group that took place when the President was being treated to a banquet at the Government House, longs after he had finished his projects commissioning. It argued that “the stone-pelters as seen from the video in the fight against the traffic police were innocent children sponsored by politicians and terrorist sympathizers. There is no place for violence in a democracy. “The PDP should use the opportunity of the electioneering to put their point of view in a democracy. “When problems can be resolved through talks, there is no place for stone-pelting, arson and unruly behaviour as we are witnessing in some of the campaigns.” The Presidency also urged religious and political leaders to steer the youths from the path of violence adding that Buhari has not lost respect in Kano. “The President was in the state to work on the development, safety and security of the lives of common citizens and the happy thing about it was that the good people of Kano State were appreciative of him for the progress the state and the nation at large are making under him. “It is equally unhealthy for society and it becomes the duty of political, social and religious leaders to correctly inform the misled youngsters to shun the path of violence which is inimical to their own future. “Lastly to say that the President has not lost his command and respect in Kano. “For those who hold the border closure against him, they must come to realise that the 60-70 integrated rice mills in the city today would not have been in place if he had allowed the free-for-all smuggling to continue,” it said.