The Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council has urged Nigerians to ignore what it called the “opposition’s orchestrated propaganda” that it does not have polling agents in core northern states less than two months to the February 25 presidential election. The spokesman for the campaign council, Yunusa Tanko, stated this in a release issued on Sunday in reaction to an earlier report, dismissing the chances of the Labour Party for having inadequate agents to man all polling units across the country. According to Mr. Tanko, the Labour Party has foot soldiers “to man all polling units in the North and the entire nation.” He stated that “the opposition’s gimmicks to weaken the resolved minds of Nigerians to vote Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed into power this year will not fly.” The statement read, “The attention of the Labour Party Presidential Campaign Council, has been drawn to yet another deceitful information circulating on the social media that our party has not submitted agents for 90,000 Polling Units in North-Central, North-East and North-West. “We see this as yet another propaganda from the opposition to bring our rising influence down and deceive the electorate in an election year. “We have volunteers all over the country that surpass even the number of agents required for each polling booth; so the issue of not being able to supply agents for the 90,000 units is a complete fallacy designed by the enemies of progress in Nigeria. “The Independent National Electoral Commission gave a window of up to January 20 for political parties to submit their list of agents for the elections and as such cannot at this time raise concerns about any political party not being able to submit enough agents. “The Labour Party has a task force on the recruitment and selection of agents headed by our presidential candidate Obi and his running mate Baba-Ahmed and the National Chairman and the National Secretary of the party are all members of that committee. “The LPPCC is investigating the source of this propaganda because we know it is definitely not from the INEC. “We appeal to the Obidient family and the teeming supporters of our party to disregard the deceitful information and focus on the collection of their Permanent Voter Cards which are our collective weapons to dislodge the enemies of our dear country.”