A Gombe State monarch, Mai Kaltungo, Saleh Muhammad, says the non-existence of mechanised agriculture has led youths to embrace drug abuse in the community. Muhammad, who doubles as the Deputy Chairman Council of Emirs and Chiefs Gombe State, made this observation while addressing the Presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi, who came alongside his running mate, Yusuf Baba-Ahmed. Our correspondent reports that Obi had visited Gombe North on Wednesday, where he was received at Pantami stadium. The monarch said, “Kaltungo is an agrarian community and the most peaceful local government in the entire Gombe. We have Igbo indigene who have been given letter of indigeneship but our major problem is lack of mechanised farming because the youths of nowadays are solely dependent on drugs and substance unlike the old system of farming where men don’t depend on drugs.” Speaking about Obi’s visit, Muhammad added, “The people are excited seeing the presidential candidate and his entourage coming to physically tell them what he wants to do for them if elected. This is the first time a presidential candidate is visiting this palace since this electioneering period and for our people our yes is our yes and our no is our no. They have heard you and they will decide.” Speaking at the Olusegun Obasanjo stadium, Kaltungo, Obi expressed his commitment in ensuring mechanised agriculture. He lamented the situation of the country where residents in the last 20 years had become impoverished, with overwhelming hunger, promising to yield modern agricultural setting in the area as president. “Datti and I are committed to a new Nigeria. In the last 20 years Nigeria can only produced poverty, hunger, insecurity and unemployment. “Believe in the two of us. We came here because we believe in you. The farmers will go back to farm, they will not only farm with olden implement we will bring modern farming here,” he said. He promised to bequeath to the next generation a country where people would get jobs after graduation, while urging for the needed support to bring it to fruition.