The Deputy President of the Senate and Delta State governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, on Sunday received 26 leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party under the aegis of Delta Unity Group with a vow to punish Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in the February 25 presidential election for non-performance. The DUG members who formally defected into the APC were said to be over 25,000 and loyal to former Governor James  Ibori, thereby worsening the chances of the party’s victory. Omo-Agege stated this at St. George’s College in Obinomba community, Ukwuani Local Government Area  of Delta North during his  campaign in the area. According to him, the poor performance of  Okowa in Delta State, despite receiving N4.2trn federal allocation in the last seven years has already given the APC victory. Among the Ibori loyalists who defected to the APC at the campaign rally were a former Commissioner and three-time former member, House of Representatives, Mercy Isei; member PDP Board of Trustees and former Commissioner, Chief Judith Enamuotor; three-time member, House of Representatives, Daniel Reyenieju; former Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Monday Igbuya; former Speaker, DTHA and former member, House of Representatives, Olisa Imegwu; former Commissioner and former member, DTHA, Timi Tonye; former Commissioner and former member, DTHA, Evans Iwurie; and a former chairman, Ethiope East LGA, Faith Majemite. Others are former Executive Secretary, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission and former Special Adviser to Governor Okowa, Andy Osavwota; and former Commissioner for Urban Renewal and Youth Development, Dr. Karo Ilolo. Omo-Agege declared that the people of the state were now determined to ensure that the APC win all the three senatorial districts and the governorship in order to punish Okowa. He said, “Come February 25, we have everything that it takes to chase Okowa out. We will win them. How many are there that we can’t beat them? We have the chance to punish Okowa in the ballot. We will chase them away. “We have the chance to win the three Senate seats. If I become governor, no Senatorial District would be discriminated against. We will ensure there is equity. We will apply our resources judiciously and fairly. Our schools will no longer be kindergarten schools.”