Operatives of the Osun State Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, have arrested a 21-year-old suspected kidnapper, Enetho Destiny, while he was heading for Patigi, Kwara State. Osun Amotekun Field Commander, Amitolu Shittu, during an interview with our correspondent on Wednesday, said the suspect was arrested in Ila, Osun State on Sunday. Shittu also said operatives on patrol saw the suspect inside a bush with a bag of rice and picked him up, adding that upon interrogation, it was discovered that Destiny was a kidnapper based in Edo State. The Amotekun boss, who warned that the operatives would continue to make every part of Osun’s territory unsafe for criminals, further said operatives have sustained search in the area where Destiny was apprehended to ensure that others working with the suspect who may be hiding, were also arrested. Speaking to newsmen, Destiny, a father of four, confessed to being a kidnapper, saying his gang abducted four people in Edo before he left the state. He, however, said he was no longer into kidnapping, adding that he left Edo to reunite with his family members living in Patigi, Kwara State. He also said a bag of rice he had in his possession when he was caught was stolen in Ila, when he arrived the community on Sunday. He said the suspect would be handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. He said, “I was going to Patigi, Kwara state from Edo State to see my wife and children. In Edo, we were into kidnapping. I left the other members of the gang and decided to move to Kwara because I don’t want to engage in kidnapping again. “I and my colleagues have kidnapped four people and what we normally do was to contact families of our victims and asked them for money. “I got to Osun Sunday morning. The driver that took me from Edo dropped me at Ila because the money I paid was not enough to take me to Kwara state. “I was arrested in the night after stealing a bag of rice from a farm. I plan to sell the rice and use the money to continue my journey to Kwara State.”