The Lagos State Government on Friday reassured residents and motorists that it would continue engaging relevant stakeholders until traffic gridlocks being experienced around Apapa-Port axis was totally eradicated. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Sola Giwa, disclosed this during an interactive meeting with relevant stakeholders including officials of Nigerian Port Authority on the permanent solutions to Apapa traffic gridlocks held at the Ministry of Transportation, Alausa, Ikeja. This was contained in a statement signed by Adebayo Taofiq, Director, Public Affairs and Enlightenment Department, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority. According to the statement, Giwa disclosed that despite the success recorded in managing traffic around Apapa with the introduction of ‘Eto’ system to petroleum tankers, the State Government is still working tirelessly to resolve other challenges to enable seamless journey to motorists. The Special Adviser maintained the government was trying to establish a process that would be seen as fair and beneficial to everyone no matter the delay. He said, “When the road is free, motorists will move freely without traffic and tankers turnover will be high. “Traffic causes health, security and other social problems” Officials at the meeting general agreed and set up a committee with terms of accommodating other stakeholders into the ‘call-up’ system introduced to encourage orderliness parking among tankers and to provide an holistic solutions to the entire perennial traffic problem around Apapa. Speaking earlier at the meeting, Kilanko Solomon, who represented Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, commended Giwa for working round the clock in ensuring free flow of traffic around Apapa and other parts of the State. He, however, said his organisation is ready to co-operate with the Lagos State Government in providing lasting solutions to the perennial traffic around the entire Apapa-Port area. Other stakeholders at the meeting include officials of NPA, MOMAN, PTD Lagos Zonal Command, NUPENG, STIC, Ardova Plc, Conoil and LASTMA officials.