The Edo State Government has said churches, mosques, event centres, clubs, lounges, and other public spaces that do not meet the state’s guidelines on noise pollution, including the installation of soundproof materials, will be sealed by March 31. The move is a sequel to a stakeholders’ meeting between government officials and owners of establishments requiring noise control, which was held on October 31, 2022. Notices titled, “Soundproofing Requirement for Your Property” have been served on stakeholders, especially owners of hotels, lounges, clubs, bars, churches, mosques, and event centres, among others, across Benin City. In a statement on Thursday, the state Commissioner for Physical Planning, Housing, Urban, and Regional Development, Isoken Omo, said the notices conveyed the agreement reached by the stakeholders on a March 31, 2023, deadline for compliance. She noted, “The facility owners have a 90-day grace period. The notices are also accompanied by a leaflet to guide soundproofing specifications and materials, as well as the role of the Ministry of Environment and Sustainability in providing further guidance on soundproofing requirements. “The move to bring such facilities within an acceptable noise level is encoded in the National Environmental (Noise Standard and Control) Regulation Law F.R.N. Part V General 13-1308 17 – (2) and the extant Town Planning Laws. It also became necessary after MPPHURD started receiving incessant complaints and petitions from the general public.” The Chief Imam of Benin Central Mosque, Sheikh Abdulfatai Enabulele, told The PUNCH that the mosques would comply with the directive of the state government, noting that the move is meant for a good course. He said, “After God, the government is the next so we have to comply with the directive. We have nothing against it. I am sure it is a good course. “If that is what the government wants, we will sensitise our members about the need to comply. It is a government directive.” Efforts to get the reaction of the state chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Bishop Oyennude Kure, proved abortive as he failed to take calls made to his line.