The Bauchi State Police Command has arrested a 50-year-old man and five others for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl in Katagum Local Government Area of Bauchi State several times. Among the suspects were 40-year-old and 37-year-old men. The spokesman for the command, Ahmed Wakil, a Superintendent of Police, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists in the state on Friday. He said that the case was transferred to the police from a lower Shariah Court in Yayu town in Chinade District of Katagum LGA. He added that the suspects often lure the minor with monetary gifts of either N100 or N200 to commit their crime. He said, “The command has arrested a 50-year-old and five others for raping a 12-year girl. “The case was referred from the Lower sharia court, Yayu town Chinade district Katagum LGA on January 18, 2023, for discreet investigation regarding a 12-year-old girl who was raped on different occasions. “A discreet investigation was conducted by the Gender Unit attached to the State Criminal Investigation Department of Bauchi. “The investigation pointed to the following suspects namely; Abubakar Bello (50), Idriss Yakubu (40), Nasiru Dalhatu (40), Idris Sarkin Ruwa (50), Abubakar Jallaba (37) and Mustapha Kawu, male (40), all males and residents of Yayu village, Katagum LGA. “The suspects confessed to have on different occasions enticed the little girl with monetary gifts ranging from N100 to N200 to have carnal knowledge of her. “During the interrogation, all the suspects confessed to having had carnal knowledge of the underage victim.” Wakil said that rape is a ‘capital offence and also against humanity and good conscience’ pointing out that section 283 of the penal code and Section 1(2a-c) of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act of Bauchi State prescribes the punishment for rape. He said that during the investigation, the detectives of the command uncovered all facts and points to establish a prima-facie case against the accused persons respectively. According to him, the Commissioner of Police, Aminu Alhassan, directed that the suspects be charged to court to face the full wrath of the law as justice will be served to the accused, the victim, and the society at large.