The Nigerian Meteorological Agency has predicted dust-haze weather conditions from Monday to Wednesday across the country. NiMet’s weather outlook released on Sunday in Abuja predicted thick dust-haze with horizontal visibility of less or equal to 1,000m over the northern region during the forecast period on Monday. According to it, moderate dust haze with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5km is expected over the North central region with prospects of horizontal visibility of less than or equal to 1,000m over parts of Niger within the forecast period. “Moderate dust-haze condition with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5Km is anticipated over the inland cities of the South during the forecast period. “Hazy atmosphere with intervals of sunshine are anticipated over the coastal cities of the South during the forecast period,” it said. The agency predicted thick dust haze on Tuesday with horizontal visibility of less or equal to 1,000m over the northern region during the forecast period. It forecast moderate dust-haze over the North central region with prospects of reduced horizontal visibility to 1,000m or less, over parts of Niger, Benue, Kwara and the Federal Capital Territory. “Moderate dust haze condition with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5Km is expected over the inland cities of the South during the forecast period. “Hazy atmosphere with spell of sunshine are anticipated over the coastal cities of the South during the forecast period,” it said. NiMet envisaged thick dust haze on Wednesday with horizontal visibility of less or equal to 1,000m over the northern region during the forecast period. “Moderate dust haze with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5km is anticipated over the North central region with prospects of reduced horizontal visibility to 1,000m or less over parts Niger, Benue, Kwara and Nasarawa states. “Moderate dust haze condition with horizontal visibility range of 2km to 5Km is expected over the inland cities of the South during the forecast period. ”Sunny and hazy conditions are expected over coastal cities of South during forecast period. “Public are advised to take necessary precautions due to dust particles presently in suspension over the atmosphere. ”Individuals with respiratory ailments are to protect themselves as current dusty weather condition is adverse to their health,” it said. It suggested warm clothing for the little ones as cold temperatures should be expected at night time. NiMet urged all airline operators to avail themselves of weather reports periodically from its office for effective planning in their operations. NAN