The member representing Bomny-Degema Federal Constituency, Rivers State in the House of Representatives, Farah Dagogo, has said the five-point agenda of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, would actualise restructuring of the country. Dagogo also said the agenda will address the issues of disconnect occasioned by ethnic disunity in the country. He stated this at a sensitisation parley with Atiku’s supporters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Monday. He assured Nigerians that their votes for Atiku and his running mate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State would set Nigeria towards a path of peaceful coexistence, engender viable educational standard and economic prosperity. He expressed optimism that the current problems plaguing the country and its  citizenry across all facets, would be remedied with the “all-encompassing five-point-agenda of the PDP presidential candidate.” Dagogo, a staunch supporter of  Atiku, also expressed confidence that restructuring would address the perennial attack on the country’s unity that has seen an alarming increase in the numbers of Nigerian citizens openly challenge their allegiance to her  corporate existence through agitations and demands for ethno-regional autonomy. Dagogo said, “Part of the problems that had bedeviled our country in recent times is the need to address the restructuring menace and that of resource control, which is paramount to the people of the Niger Delta and other regions in the country with natural resources. “For the first time, we have a candidate aspiring to the highest office in the country who is willing to tackle those issues head-on.” He further said the PDP presidential candidate had shown his determination to strengthen the education system and equip students with all necessary skills needed to be competitive in the new global order which is driven by innovation, science, and technology. Dagogo said Atiku is fully aware of the enormous responsibility of promoting a strong and true federal system that would build a prosperous economy, create jobs and wealth as well as lift millions out of poverty. He assured that a government led by Atiku would address the security situations of the country.