The Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has said the nation needs leaders who truly believe in the country. Soludo, who said election was not a do-or-die affair, described the Ndigbo as itinerant people who could not afford to be an intolerant tribe. The governor stated these when the presidential candidate of the New National Peoples Party, Alhaji Rabiu Kwankwaso, paid him a courtesy visit at the Governor’s Lodge, Amawbia, Anambra State. This was according to a statement made available to journalists in Awka, late on Thursday. Soludo said, “I want to commend your tenacity and belief in the country, your exemplary public service and commitment to our nation. “I have always said those who have something to offer should offer it through public service. Public service is the biggest philanthropy. “In Anambra and indeed, the South-East, we pride ourselves as being republicans and that is freedom to converse. “Here in Anambra is the home of Azikiwe, Akweke, Chinua Achebe, Okadigbo, and so on and so forth and here, we are known as people who freely express themselves and associate themselves. “As an itinerant people, we cannot afford to be an intolerant tribe. We have a popular saying that ‘Oje mba, enwe ilo’. “My position is that everyone should be allowed to canvass freely and allow the people to make their choice. “It is a serious matter of where the country is and where the country will be in future. It is time for the progressives to begin to think of the ordinary person,” Governor Soludo stated. “The hard work is beyond the election. Whoever wins, we need to sift out and bring out almost like a government of like minds for the transformation of this country. “We are blessed. We have lots of challenges, but we need people who firmly believe in this country. It is possible for Nigeria to be one of the first seven best economies in the world. “We wish you best of luck in this movement, even though I have been intensely focused on what is going on in my party. This state is blessed. We are trying everything to make it work. “A large population of our people are in Kano. As NdịIgbo, we are a great stakeholder in all the places. “Here in Anambra, our politics is such that when we are running, we can fight among ourselves, but after the election, you see our people together, chatting. It’s not a do or die affair. Everybody should campaign freely.” The Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr Ernest Ezeajughi, Principal Secretary to the Governor, JPC Anetoh, Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr. Collins Nwabunwanne, his Information and Special Duties Counterparts, Sir Paul Nwosu and Sly Ezeokenwa, among others, were also present during the visit.