Several houses and shops were destroyed on Monday in a fresh round of communal violence between the Waja and Lunguda communities in Lafiya, Lamurde Local Government Area, of Adamawa State. A resident who was caught in the violence said during the disturbance, he first saw people scampering in different directions, and in the wake of the confusion, he saw shops and houses being set ablaze by miscreants. Another resident, Sabo Ahmadu, who lives in Boshikiri, disclosed that the disturbance that greeted the Waja and Lunguda-speaking settlements erupted between 6pm and 7pm. “The fresh clash erupted between 6pm and 7pm in Lafiya, where miscreants went on setting houses, shops and other property ablaze,” Ahmadu said. Although no lives were said to have been lost in the latest violence, the state police command confirmed the destruction of four houses and 11 shops in the violence that erupted at dusk. The spokesman of the state command, SP Suleiman Nguroje, who confirmed the incident to journalists, said four houses and 11 shops were affected by the latest disturbance. The PUNCH reports that in recent years, hostilities between the Waja and Lunguda ethnic tribes, which have a long history of interdependence, have resulted in wanton destruction and the loss of many lives. Casualties from recurring violence, which has been intermittent over the past six years, have claimed over 100 lives, with a huge economic cost suffered by residents as farmlands, homes, and properties are destroyed in the warring communities. The latest skirmish is likely to jeopardise efforts at peace-building championed by the governments of Adamawa and Gombe states to rein in recurring violence across the two states. The PUNCH reports that the two state governments signed a peace treaty in 2022 and implemented a harmonised version of recommendations from a judicial panel of inquiry established by a bilateral peace committee to investigate the immediate and remote causes of the communal disturbance. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Sikiru Akande, visited the scene of the violence on Tuesday, following the restoration of normalcy in the affected areas by security operatives. During the visit, the CP “promised an investigation into the disturbance that would result in the arrest of the perpetrators of the new disturbance in the area, as well as tougher sanctions for anyone involved in the disturbance.”