The Federal Government is set to partner with Niger Republic and Gambia on issues bothering climate change. The Managing Director, Nigerian Meteorological Prof. Mansur Matazu disclosed this on Monday when officials from the National Meteorological Services of Niger Republic paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. Matazu said that the agency would also be sharing its experience with both countries on Seasonal Planet Prediction which Nigeria has been implementing in the last 15 years. He further noted that they would be exploring various areas of interest, adding that there was a critical area for Niger Republic which is the Seasonal Planet Prediction. “So, we are going to exchange and share experiences on Seasonal Planet Prediction as well as med-service prediction. We have a robust med-service prediction that is responsible for providing these exchanges of ideas and the issue of climate change, both impact on liability, adaptation and litigation,” he said. He said recently, NiMET commissioned research from across all the zones of the country, noting that tomorrow, the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, would unveil in addition to research a project published by NiMET on impacts, vulnerability, adaptation and litigation in Nigeria. “It is one area on its own and to share experiences with the Niger Republic team and of course, infrastructure and data base management, Nigeria is a wide country and we have more than 100 offices so managing such facilities is always critical but with the support of the government, we have been able to upgrade our infrastructure, both forecasting infrastructure and physical facilities “Also applied meteorology, Nigerian socioeconomic activities, all of them are climate induced so we offer our services,” he added. Speaking to newsmen, Matazu said just two years ago Niger Republic graduated from providing just forecast to impact base forecast, which is telling the public what the forecast would be and the impact of the forecast He added that technology transfers is one area that the Gambian team would also want to study Nigeria and learn from them. The DG said the agency had been assisting Liberia, Sierra Loene on their daily forecasts, adding that the agency has played significant roles in the metamorphosing of the department of med-service into an agency. “We provided them with the Impact-based forecast and increased their visibility and relevance during the debate at the National Assembly. “For Gambia as we have seen, we have been collaborating with them, remember we have a regional training center that was established in 1964, the main goal is to train English speaking African countries personnel and also we have assisted Malawi and Mozambique on PMS and ISO certification and early warning. We have also assisted med Liberia in CSG.” He further disclosed that presently the agency is also giving assistance under the World Meteorological Organisation which is the systematic observation and facility in Burkina Faso. Speaking further, he said, “Some of the benefits are in WMO. We have the slogan of South-South cooperation and the benefits of South-South cooperation is that Nigeria takes the leadership role in some of this information they are providing and we have been learning on how to improve our services.” Giving reasons why Niger Republic chose to partner Nigeria, the Public Relations Officer, Niger Republic Meteorological Services, Katiellou Lawan, said that NiMet was one of the successful meteorological agencies in Africa, adding that Nigeria and Niger are two countries, if not for the artificial boundaries, that could be said to be the same. “So, it is easier for me to come to Nigeria than any other country. “Another reason is that we need to change the way we do things, we have always turned to the North.  I think we have to stop or maybe reduce that and also develop South-South cooperation. That is why we want this initiative because Nigeria is more advanced than us in almost all the fields because we have insufficient resources. But we know we are doing our best to actually fulfil all missions given to us. In Niger, we are in the process of the modernisation of the med service.”