Nigerian forward Victor Osimhen believes that Serie A leaders Napoli have a very good chance of winning the Scudetto this season, PUNCH Sports Extra reports. Osimhen thanked Juventus for ‘a good fight’ in a 5-1 demolition job after their top of the table clash at the Stadio Diego Armando Maradona as the Partenopei laid down a marker. This was depicted as attack against defence and the former most definitely came out on top, as the leading scorers demolished a side that had kept eight consecutive clean sheets. Osimhen bagged a brace, with Kvicha Kvaratskhelia, Amir Rrahmani, and Eljif Elmas also on target, while Angel Di Maria got one back just before half-time. “It was a fantastic night, Forza Napoli always!” he told DAZN in Italian, his first phrase said in the local language. He returned to English for the rest of the interview and shared the credit all around. “Congratulations to the team, big respect to Juventus for the fight, we needed this more. I am happy for the result and happy to contribute to the team with two goals and an assist. We want to build on this momentum.” Osimhen was asked about Napoli’s chances as the game was a head-to-head for the Scudetto, but Napoli crushed the second-placed team 5-1, a side that had kept eight consecutive clean sheets until this night. “I always say we have a great squad with quality players and of course we cannot shy away from the quality players Juventus possess. It was a good fight, I am glad we came out on top and we must continue like this.” The Nigeria international said that although there is still a long way to go, he believes that as they head towards the ending stages of the season, Napoli have a good chance of achieving the feat. “The road is too long, we must continue carrying out the coach’s instructions and I think at the end of the season we have a good chance,” Osimhen said. Luciano Spalletti hailed Osimhen for his performance in Napoli’s 5-1 thrashing of Juventus and says he is amazed by what the striker still has to offer. But while now boasting 13 goals and three assists in 17 appearances this season, Spalletti believes there is more to come from the Nigeria international. “I am amazed by the potential Osimhen hasn’t put into practice yet,” Spalletti told DAZN. “He is devastating on long balls, can stand strong physically and has courage too. “He’s had his face cut two or three times because he never backs down. He almost always takes risks but he’s a player who has potential and room for improvement.”