A group, Youths Partnership for Africa’s Development, has lauded the Nigerian Copyright Commission, saying its recently appointed Director-General, John Asein, and his team, have provided a safe environment for the production of creative works and protection of copyrights. The group’s Secretary, Kewul Suleh, made this known on Friday while presenting the Thomas Sankara Leadership Prize to Asien in Abuja. Suleh noted that Asien was honoured with the Pan-African Icon of Public Service Renaissance by the organisation, following his positive contributions to publishing and protection of copyright – intellectual property development in the country. He described Asein as a public office holder with zero tolerance to corruption, nepotism or favoritism. Suleh said, “Your exemplary lifestyle promotes African moral values, and is worthy of emulation by the youths; your integrity and high administrative prudence also informed the presentation of this honour.” According to him, the Thomas Sankara Leadership Prize for Integrity and Transparency is strictly reserved to recognise and appreciate great African leaders of courage and integrity. While expressing delight for the honour, the NCC DG dedicated the award to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for finding him worthy of service. He further called for a collaboration between the NCC and the youth organisation to empower young people in the creative sector, and also the campaign against copyright piracy, intellectual property theft, and rewarding creatives. Asien said, “Some people go into those unwholesome activities because their energy is being channelled into those areas. If you can help more youths channel their energy into their creative abilities, and earn a living, one might be able to give some of them reasons to stay off drugs. “This is because someone who is into poetry or drama knows that they need to finish a play or the production and they will not use that time to go taking drugs because that will derail their thoughts.”