The Ogun State Government has declared Tuesday and Wednesday as work-free days for workers in the state public service to collect their Permanent Voter Cards. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, disclosed this in a statement issued on Sunday in Abeokuta. The statement read, “Following the extension of Permanent Voter Cards collection till Sunday, January 29, 2023, by the Independent National Electoral Commission, Governor Dapo Abiodun has graciously approved two days – Tuesday, January 24 and Wednesday, January 25 as work-free days to enable public servants to collect their PVCs from their respective local governments. “Governor Abiodun also enjoined all executive members of public markets and private establishments in the state to allow flexibility in their schedules for residents to use the opportunity to visit INEC offices or collection centres where they registered to collect their PVCs.” Also, the Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, declared Monday (today) and Tuesday as public holidays in the state to enable residents to collect their PVCs. This directive was contained in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Chris Ezem, on Saturday. The governor ordered that all public offices and markets should be closed and enjoined that everyone should use the opportunity to visit the INEC offices or collection centres where they registered to collect their PVCs. “The executives of the various markets in the state are directed to ensure strict compliance on the closure of their various markets or be prepared to face appropriate sanctions. Banks and those on essential duties are not affected by this directive,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the Association of Anioma Professionals has said it would collaborate with town unions in Delta North Senatorial District to mobilise already registered voters to collect their PVCs before the deadline on January 31. The President General of the AAP, Mr Peter Nkenchor, disclosed this while speaking on Sunday in Asaba, and commended INEC for reducing the impact of the human element in the conduct of the election through the adoption of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System and other technology-based tools. He said, “The major factor that has kept voter turnout low is the perception by Nigerians that the system is corrupted and their votes will not count.”