The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Abuja, Professor Abdulrasheed Na’allah, on Sunday, hailed the institution on the commemoration of the 35th anniversary of the school. In a statement made available to our correspondent on Sunday, Na’allah commended the institution for attracting N1 billion worth of research grants in 2022. The VC also encouraged the staff and students of the institution to continually keep the flag of the institution flying high. He said, “As you might know, today, our university, the great UofA of Nigeria, is 35 years old. Since 1988 when it was established, it has been witnessing a steady rise and growth. We have had our ups and downs, teething problems, like any child passing through the phase of development, but we have never at any time succumbed. “Though the university is over 30, its aspirations are matured, and its hopes stronger – that we can be greater than any university, moving forward;  after all, the UofA has a destiny, the destiny of location at the same seat of the nation’s President and National Assembly! No Jupiter can stop the progression of the University of Abuja to a world class status! It is its destiny! “Perhaps more than any time in its history, the desire for the university to rise is collective. This mindset especially among members of the management, students, staff and the entire university community became even more visible after it clocked thirty years. We have realised that more than ever before we can do it, we can lead, and we can change the world. “With great things happening in our university today, with our staff engaged in cutting-edge research, attracting about N1bn in research grants to the university in 2022 alone, several programmes coming on stream and a swirl of physical infrastructure on campus, including staff and student services, Counseling and Career Services Centre, International Centre, Student Employment and Mentoring Scheme, Indoor Sports Hall, Staff Social Centre, Staff Quarters at the Main Campus, new Student Hostels, and with the new Senate Building and new International Conference Centre underway, the University is set for greater heights! “It is our determination that by the time the UofA reaches the golden age, it would have become the number one university in Africa and one of the finest in the World! But we are not going to achieve that feat by merely hoping, we are going to be working harder than ever before, strengthening our research base, allowing for Performance Standards at all levels of academic cadre including evaluation of full professors every three years with an annual celebration of successful Full Professors as role models on campus, perfecting our character, retraining our staff for the global ranking, and satisfying our students’ yearning for global citizenship! “It is not a mere coincidence that we celebrate our new age on the first day of every new year. The symbolism is not lost on us that we have to make a new resolution or strengthen our resolve: to never relent but continue to work harder until we become the real number one. “Ladies and gentlemen, the Management of the University of Abuja appreciates the support the institution has enjoyed from you all, staff, students and their parents and guardians, all branches of the alumni association, government institutions, etc all through these last years. “We particularly appreciate the goodwill that the university has enjoyed from the Federal Government, the National Universities Commission, Tertiary Education Trust Fund, Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, professional bodies and partner institutions – locally and internationally – and community leaders from Abuja’s indigenous communities and across Nigeria. “We shall continue to work together to lead this university to greater heights and to achieving this university’s destiny in due course!.”