The Nigeria Immigration Service, on Monday, opened its portal for the 2023 recruitment for interested applicants across the country. The recruitment is open to applicants who want to apply for the Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board. The PUNCH carefully observed the application processes on the website and highlights 12 major things to know in order to have a successful application below: 1. Start and end dates of application The application into the NIS began on Monday, January, 16, 2023 and will end after two weeks, that is January 30, 2023. 2. Method of Application All NIS Applications shall be made online. And candidates are expected to log on to the portal from to fill and submit the application form. Candidates are advised to print out the Referee forms which must he duly completed for submission during the Screening. 3. Positions available and their qualifications Category A: Superintendent Cadre: i. Superintendent of Immigration (SI) compass 11 professional (Doctors): Applicants must possess first degree in MBBS from a recognised institution of higher learning and NYSC discharge/exemption certificate. ii. Deputy Superintendent of Immigration (DSI) CONPASS 10 professional (pharmacists): Applicants must possess a first degree in Pharmacy from a recognised institution of higher learning and a NYSC discharge/exemption certificate. iii. Assistant Superintendent of Immigration II (ASI) CONPASS 08: Applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree, Higher National Diploma or its equivalent from a recognised institution. Category B: Inspectorate Cadre: i. Assistant Inspector Immigration (All) General Duty CONPASS 06; Applicants must to be holders of a National Diploma, NCE or Advance NABTEB obtained from recognised institutions. Category C: Assistant Cadre: i. Immigration Assistant; (IA I11) CONPASS 03 General Duty: Applicants must be holders of GCE Ordinary Level, SSCE/NECO, GCE or its equivalent with a minimum of 4 credit in not more than two (2) sittings, which must include English and Mathematics. ii. Immigration Assistant III (IA III CONPASS 03 Artisans: a) motor driver b) Mechanic: Applicants must be holders of ordinary level SSCE or its equivalents and appropriate trade test certificate.” 3. Nationality of applicants The NIS said all applicants must be Nigerians by birth. 4. Documents needed for application i.National Identity Number ii. e-copy of certificates and requisite qualifications in the section of application. iii. Certificates of medical fitness from government-recognised hospitals. 5. Test of drug or other subtances All applicants must do drug test to be qualified for the recruitment. 6. Financial stability Although the NIS did not state an amount to have for its financial status, it said any of its applicants must not be ‘financially embarrassed’. 7. Age limits All applicants must be between the ages of 18 years and 30 years with exception to doctors and pharmacists who must not be more than 35 years. 8. Computer Literacy Although, this is not a must to have, but the NIS has considered it an added advantage for applicants. 9. Chest measurement Applicants chest measurement only applies to men and must not be less than 0.87. 10. Failure to submit certificate NIS said any certificate or qualification not declared and accepted during documentation shall not be accepted after recruitment. 11. Disqualification NIS said candidates with multiple applications shall be disqualified. 12. Exam mode The recruitment exam mode shall be Computer Based Test for shortlisted candidates and appropriate time and date shall be communicated.