The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, commenced a two-day official visit to his home state, Katsina. This is as some youths staged a protest shortly after he inaugurated one of the projects slated for opening during his stay in the state. The youths staged the protest a few minutes after the President inaugurated the Kofar Kaoran Underpass in Katsina. The President had finished the inauguration of the underpass and left when the youths stormed the underpass and started shouting “Bamuyi’; Bamuyi’’ (Hausa language literally translated to mean “We are not interested”). The youths were also throwing stones at the vehicles in the convoy of state government officials departing the venue. They were also about to make bonfires on the newly inaugurated underpass when security operatives started firing teargas to disperse them. The youths subsequently dispersed in different directions including along Kofa Kwaya Road and along the ‘Alliance Bread’ area. One of the youths who managed to speak with our correspondent while fleeing from the ensuing commotion said they were protesting the hardship in the country, noting that they had just gathered themselves at the inauguration venue. “We dey suffer. No job; no money. No security of lives…”, he uttered as he ran away. The Spokesman for the Katsina Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, could not be reached for comments as his phone lines were not going through. He was also yet to respond to a text message sent to him on the incident as of 4.40 p.m. The President, however, later unveiled the rehabilitated General Hospital, Katsina. He was at a meeting with some elders and opinion leaders in the state inside the Banquet hall, Government House, Katsina at 4.30 p.m. when this report was filed. Governor Aminu Masari led the leaders to the meeting which also had in attendance his deputy, Mannir Yakubu, businessmen Dahiru Manga and Salisu Mamman, Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, as well as the Katsina State All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Dr. Umar Dikko Radda, among others. Buhari will continue his official visit on Friday where he is scheduled to inaugurate some other projects including roads and also pays a courtesy call to the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Faruq Umar.