The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, on Friday said Nigeria needed a leader that would stop wastage and rebuild a new country which would result in citizens’ loyalty. Obi stated that the only accusation against him was that he was stingy, but added that Nigeria needed a stingy leader with a culture of saving. This was as the former governor of Anambra State said the ‘Obidient’ movement did not necessarily represent a political party but a people of different formations desirous of building a new Nigeria. Addressing participants at at a campaign rally held in the Rwang Pam stadium, Jos, the Plateau State capital, Obi led the people to observe a minute silence for members of the Peoples Democratic Party from Plateau State who died in a road accident while returning from a campaign rally. These were contained in a release by the Obi-Datti media team. The statement read in part, “The Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, landed on the Plateau on Friday declaring that what is needed in this country going forward is a leader that will stop wastages and begin the rebuilding of a new Nigeria that the people will be loyal and faithful to, not to their various political parties. “Obi noted that the only accusation against him is stinginess, but remarked that Nigeria needs a stingy person to safeguard its resources and deploy them appropriately. “Obi told the Gbong Gwom Jos, Da Jacob Gyang Buba when he paid him homage in his palace that saving is a character formation, noting that while other candidates accused themselves of stealing government money, the only accusation against him was stinginess, adding that it is time for Nigerian leaders to stop wastages in government. “The Labour Party flag bearer said that the Obidient movement does not necessarily represent a political party but a people of different formations desirous of building a new Nigeria.” Leading the crowd in a one-minute silence for the PDP members that died in the auto crash, Obi stated that even though those who died in the auto mishap were not the LP members, “the life of every Nigerian is important, adding that the party suspended campaign in Plateau State for some days to mourn the dead.” In another engagement with a group known as the ‘National Obidient Students’ at a townhall held at the Landfill Event Centre, Jos, Obi reiterated his vow to protect and secure Nigeria and Nigerians. “We want to save the life of every Nigerian. We will secure and unite Nigeria. We are not contesting the election based on tribe. “We want to build a new Nigeria, a new Nigeria is POssible. It is the turn of Nigerians to take back their country. “That is why we said we will move Nigeria from consumption to production. We want to create jobs; we want to secure Nigeria. “Our youths are hard working; they are very productive, we want to make them compete with others in the world. “Saving is a character formation,” he said. Boasting that neither he nor his running mate, Yusuf Datti-Ahmed, had stolen any public funds, Obi stated that the forthcoming election was about character, adding that, “We are wealth creators. This is the opportunity for us to recover Nigeria and make it work.” Obi stated that his campaign promises were recorded and that the people should hold him responsible for them. He added, “Give me the opportunity to secure the country; give me the opportunity to recover Nigeria and stop the blame game. “We don’t want aid; what we want is the opportunity to take back the country.”