The Oxford International Group, has denied allegations of defrauding its clients and partners through its various investments. The Group Head of Corporate Communications, Oxford International Group, Benjamin Sarumi, in a statement made available to newsmen on Tuesday, noted that there was sanctity and legitimacy in the operation of the company. Sarumi, who described the company’s clients as their biggest achievement, assured the customers of the payment of their investment. He stressed that since the Securities and Exchange Commission seized some of its offices, the company had been making efforts in satisfying its customers and fulfiling the promises made at the beginning of the contract. The Group Head of Corporate Communications, however, lamented the continuous victimisation of members of staff of the company by aggrieved customers. He lamented that workers including the Chief Executive Officer of the company had been subjected to different attacks by some customers. The statement read in part, “We have been christened several names on and off Social Media; Scam Organisation, Ponzi Scheme, a Looting venture with name calling to members of our executives. In ensuring the fish inhales the hook, line and sinker all at the same time, staff members have had their houses invaded by men of the Police Force. “We were saddened by the reality of yet another form of brutality which unfolded on December 15, 2022 at one of our offices. A defeating hope in the sanity of governance, its people, its implementers, and the elephant projection of an in-active ease of doing business in Nigeria. “Outlandish as it may seem, Nigeria as an emotional state is a satire to our democratic process; who tells the best story, who pays the first bill. Now, this is not geared at stating that we are right and someone else is wrong – this is us stating our case to the general public as we had hitherto stayed quiet while focusing on repayments as instructed by the regulatory body; you would agree, it’s become necessary that we tell our side of the story; a story of a sincere organisation fulfiling it’s due diligence in the heat of assault and threat to life as opposed to adoption of a norm (closing up business and eloping) which doesn’t represent the ethos and ethics of our establishment. “We were saddened by the actions of some members of the Police Force who weren’t dressed in official uniforms in the early hours of December 15, 2022; a relapse into the hours of the kangaroo nature as dealt on Fela in the 90s, bruising, bashing staff members and destroying official properties all in pursuit of funds, regardless of our solicitation of a payment plan as a result of the S.E.C reality. “We are pained and shocked at this incident, it’s furtherance to revealing the appreciation of zero due process in our dear country – this is sequel to the experience of an aggrieved customer’s attempt of releasing his charms on a senior staff member during work hours. The trauma may linger for a while, the bruises would take weeks or months to heal, but what wouldn’t heal is the pain in our hearts. Broken that it had to get to this point with our dear clients. “Our clients form part of our biggest achievement, so, we will continue to make payments, assure them of the sanctity and the legitimacy of our business operation. To you our colleagues and friends, hurt and still in shock, please stand strong, and accept our apologies. Nigeria may become a better place; what must of a certainty become a better person, resolute, oxfording and making greatness common, is you”. Sarumi also revealed that the CEO of the company, Dr. Goodluck Olatunde, was attacked while returning from cross-over service with his family around Ota. He further revealed, “The CEO, Dr. Goodluck Olatunde, watched not just his life flash in his face, but that of his wife and children as his car was shot at, the windscreen broken, violently dragged out of the car, beaten to pulp and left without knowing the fate of his family. This couldn’t have been a robbery as nothing was stolen, it was a statement being made – ‘Oxford lon tin shishe’ (he works at Oxford). Waking up at the hospital, Dr. Goodluck had lost hope at the use of one of his eyes, graciously, the Supernatural re-affirmed His covenant promise on the Oxford family, ‘none shall be missing…’ We will like to request that you stand on your prayer alters on behalf of the CEO and his family, that God almighty should heal and grant him fast recovery as he strengthens his family at this time. “Shocked at what may happen next, the organisation has taken the following steps to ensure the safety of her staff members and offices. As opposed to the official re-opening date of offices for the year 2023 – January 4, offices will now commence operation on January 9, 2023, this change in date will allow for the reinforcement of security personnel in all of our offices.” 