The traditional ruler of Issele-Azagba, HRM Obi Timothy Ijieh, has called on youths in the state to shun ‘Yahoo boys’ activities and key into the vocational skill programme of the Federal Government. The monarch made the call at the training of 20 youths in vocational skill by the National Directorate of Employment in Issele-Azagba, Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State. Obi Ijieh represented by Chief Emmanuel Isichei urged the youths to desist from fraudulent internet activities, and imbibe vocational skills even as he commended NDE for bringing the training to the community. He said, “Take this training of vocational skills serious, don’t join the yahoo yahoo and keeping your hope that you will make it there, you can only make it through your skill acquisitions,” he advised. The Director General of the National Directorate of Employment, Mallam Abubarkar Fikpo, who flagged-off the training of 20 youths for the School-on-Wheels scheme, said skill acquisitions is the only way to go. Fikpo, whose address was read by the Acting State Coordinator of NDE, Mr. Sylvanus Onyeogo, urged the trainees to put in their best in learning various skills. He said, “SOW is one of the grassroots training scheme of the directorate designed to extend skill acquisition training activities to unemployed persons in rural area. “This involves the deployment of well equipped mobile training workshop stocked with vocational skill training facilities to rural area, where training outlets are deficient or not existent. “It is also a short-term intervention scheme aimed at imparting skills in youth of various communities, thus creating pools of artisans in the community.” He said, The training would address the needs of the rural environment, promote economic activities and stern the tide of rural-urban drift, creating wealth and employment opportunities for the unemployed.” Fikpo said the skills training for the School-on-Wheels include; hair dressing, barbing, satellite dish installation, catering and cosmetology, for the period of three months.