The Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, Delta State, has partnered TechnipFMC, a global offshore oil and gas firm, in its drive for local content and manpower development. Some PTI academic staff participated in the training on subsea system operations anchored by TechnipFMC which kicked off in the Institute’s campus on Friday. Subsea engineering is a multidisciplinary field that is broadly responsible for the design, construction, installation and operation of offshore oil and gas fields and offshore wind farms. The PUNCH gathered that the manpower training was aimed at exploring all the major aspects of processes, technologies and systems involved in subsea oil and gas production and to enhance the skills of the Institute’s staff. Addressing participants while declaring open the training programme, the Principal and Chief Executive of PTI, Dr. Henry Adimula, noted that the training was aimed at improving and upscalling the staff skills to enable them participate in offshore business activities of the oil and gas industry. “As you are aware, most activities in the upstream section of the oil sector are now moving offshore and as service provider, you need to understand the technicalities and identify opportunities for the sector,” he stated. The Principal who was represented by the Director of Science, Dr. Bamidele Oyetunde, assured that PTI will continue to retrain its workforce on the latest technologies needed for the sector.
He commended TechnipFMC for offering the training stating that PTI management is highly delighted in partnering with TechnipFMC. Dr. Adimula also praised the efforts of the Institute’s Head of Linkages, Exchange & Partnerships Unit, Dr. Sarah Nwinee for ensuring the success of the training. The General Manager, Capacity Building Division of the Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board, Dr. Ama Ikuru, in his address, also charged the PTI staff to take the training seriously and make the best use of the programme to improve their skills and that of the Institute. He said, “PTI is embarking on a very important journey. I am happy that this training is coming at this time. The world is going into subsea activities, hence the importance of this training. I want to appeal to the Training staff of PTI to pay rapt attention on this programme as we hope to send trainees to be trained by the Institute”. Also speaking, the Country Manager, TechnipFMC, Tayo Akinkunmi, disclosed that the TechnipFMC’s global training programme is developed specially for everyone who is new to the subsea industry, or wants to have a deeper basic knowledge about the offshore operations and equipment used in the global subsea industry. While commending PTI management for embarking on the training for its Training Staff, Akinkunmi stated that TechnipFMC being a global leader in energy, projects, technologies; systems and services, also provides clients with deep expertise across subsea and surface projects.