The Adamawa State government and the state All Progressives Congress governorship candidate, Aisha Ahmed popularly called Binani, have disagreed on the use of Mahmud Ribadu Square to welcome the President, Major-General Mohammadu Buhari (retd.), to the state ahead of the campaign rally for the presidential candidate of the ruling party, Bola Tinubu. Binani, earlier, according to a report had allegedly been denied the use of the state government-owned facility for the flag-off of her governorship campaign slated for January 9. However, the Adamawa State government in a press statement by Governor Ahmadu Fintiri’s Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou, said the APC candidate wasn’t denied the campaign venue. The statement revealed that while the Ribadu Square venue was approved for the national campaign team of APC to hold its presidential rally on January 18, 2023, the state government, said it asked the APC governorship to choose another date, because repair works will begin on the venue from January 7, and would make the facility, unavailable for her use. While the controversy of the venue dragged, and, Binani, had gone ahead and secured another location, along Airport road, the APC PCC later revised its campaign schedule, backdating, its national campaign to January 9, with President Buhari agreeing to attend the Adamawa rally, to campaign for Tinubu. But, in a sudden twist, to the whole venue saga, Senator Aisha Binani, had informed the party of her preference, for the rally to be staged at the alternate venue, she had already secured, which is, located along Airport road, in Damilu. The PUNCH, learnt, that Binani’s opposition to the use of the Ribadu Square, has caused a rift between her and the state working committee as well as the state chapter of the Presidential Campaign Council headed by Martin Babale. The Adamawa State government, which is also, not happy with the politicisation, of its approval of Ribadu Square, for use by the APC, has come out again, to deny, claims that the APC was refused the use of the Ribadu Square. The Chief of Staff to Governor Fintiri, Professor Maxwell Gidado (SAN),  while making clarification on the issues to journalists, on Sunday, said, the state government, had at no time denied APC the use of the Ribadu Square for its campaign rally. He said, “The state APC PPC wrote to us and said the president is coming on January 9. They said they can’t see the president, coming on the 9th and returning back on January 18, so the campaign is likely going to be a joint event and we gave them the venue. Now, the story, is that Binani, the APC candidate, is still insisting, she’s not going to allow the President to go into Ribadu Square. “But, would go ahead to hold the APC rally, at an alternate location. But we want to extricate ourselves, and let the whole world know that we gave them approval. So, if she wants to play politics, by refusing the use of Ribadu Square, it is left to the APC.”