Chief of Staff to the Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Sunkanmi Obisesan, was on Sunday reportedly attacked by some suspected hoodlums in the Ifofin area of Ilesa. Obisesan, who sustained a leg injury, it was learnt, was rushed to Wesley Guild Hospital, Ilesa for treatment and efforts to reach him failed, as calls to his line rang out. But the Press Secretary to the Speaker, Kunle Alabi, who confirmed the attack, said the perpetrators were hoodlums allegedly working for the ruling Peoples Democratic Party. Alabi explained that Obisesan had joined other APC members in Ifofin to receive the member representing Atakumosa East and West State Constituency at the Osun House of Assembly, Mr Babatunde Komolafe, who visited the area when the attackers swooped on them and started throwing bottles at the gathering. Similarly, the campaign office of the immediate past Commissioner for Works and Transport in the state, Mr Remi Omowaye, in llesa was also reportedly attacked in the early hours of Sunday. In the pictures obtained from the scene, the main door to the office, glass windows, billboards and APC flags were damaged during the attack. Speaking after inspecting the scene, Omowaiye said the PDP-led government was behind the incident and called on the Inspector General of Police and heads of other security agencies to arrest the situation before it gets out of control. Reacting to the allegation, Osun State PDP Caretaker Chairman, Dr Akindele Adekunle, said those behind the attacks must have been hoodlums hired by the APC for the July 16 governorship poll that the party had refused to settle after the poll. Adekunle, in a statement obtained in Osogbo, also said the PDP was not behind the attack, as the party was busy with 100 days activities of the new administration. “We are shocked by all these rumours of attacks. What we heard is that after the arrest of Asiri Eniba and Rasheed Oko Ilu during the July 16 polls, Mr Oyetola and his team abandoned their recruited gangs. “After the election, we were told nobody cared about the bad boys who were nurtured by them for four years,” he claimed. 