Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Sunday  alleged that protests  in the state against the judgment of the state Election Petition Tribunal that sacked the state Governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke, on Friday were sponsored. The party further said the protests allegedly being sponsored by Adeleke and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, could worsen their case, instead of adding positive value to it at the Appeal Court. But reacting, the Osun PDP acting chairman, Dr  Akindele Adekunle, said the protests indicated that the people rejected the verdict of the panel. In August 2022, the immediate past governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola, and the APC  at  the tribunal challenged the victory of  Adeleke, the PDP governorship candidate at the July 16, 2022 governorship poll in the state. Delivering judgment on Friday, two out of the three-member panel of the tribunal held that Oyetola was able to prove that there was over-voting in some of the polling units. Tetsea Kume, who read the majority decision, held that INEC did not comply substantially with the constitution and the provisions of the Electoral Act. On Saturday, there were protests in Osogbo, the state capital by the PDP supporters, who faulted the judgment. Many business owners in the city did not open for fear of being attacked by hoodlums amid the unrest. The PDP protesters marched through Osogbo, chanting songs denouncing the nullification of the governor’s victory. APC faults Adeleke On Sunday, the state APC acting Chairman, Mr. Tajudeen Lawal,  in statement obtained in Osogbo , expressed concern that the PDP chose the option of attacking the judiciary simply because the tribunal judgement did not go its way. It further read in part, “I must expressly state here that it is still within the purview of your fundamental human right to approach the Court of Appeal for redress instead of sponsoring violent protests in some towns across the state. “Based on  Friday’s tribunal judgement, it is absolutely illegal for Adeleke to be talking about any mandate as the authentic election results of the July 16, 2022 governorship election has expressly shown that the PDP candidate has no mandate to flaunt talkless of claiming any. “It should be known that the incidence of over-voting, basis upon which Adeleke was purportedly declared the winner by the INEC as established by the tribunal, is nothing but unfair play which if left unturned is capable of setting a very bad precedent for our democracy. “No matter the magnitude of Adeleke’s sponsored protests and vilification and denigration  of the judiciary, his current status as a sacked governor has the stamp of the law of the land. “The Adeleke sponsored protests were without any effect as there is no nexus between justice and sentiment because the law will always take its cause without the heavens coming down.” But Adekunle, while reacting to APC’s claim, said the protests was proof that Osun people rejected the ‘Buga verdict.’ “The demonstration of support for Governor Adeleke was spontaneous and a direct revolt against attempt to steal a popular mandate. Our people trooped out and said No to that Kangaroo judgment. “Nobody celebrated the evil ruling. Across towns and villages, Osun people  voluntarily rejected a bunch of electoral armed robbers. “So we expect APC to be angry. They are unhappy because they lacked popular support, “Adekunle concluded.