The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige, has said federal civil servants will start getting their allowances paid in full by January as soon as President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approves the payment. Ngige disclosed this while fielding questions from journalists on Thursday. He said contrary to speculations that the Federal Government was proposing a salary increase for civil servants, the true position was that the federal civil servants’ allowances would be paid in full as soon as Buhari approved the payment. He said the idea of paying the allowances to the federal civil servants was muted as part of measures to cushion the effects of the current economic hardship in the country. The minister disclosed that the workers allowances had been tabulated by the ministry and sent to the President for approval. According to him, the issue of salary increment and remunerations for the workers is not a unilateral decision as it will require a roundtable deliberation between the workers union and the Federal Government before any salary adjustment can be effected. Ngige commended the Buhari-led administration for the Second Niger Bridge, Enugu-Okigwe-Umuahia-Aba-Port Harcourt expressway as well as the renovation and upgrading of the Enugu Airport. He listed the projects as some of the developmental projects recorded by the present administration in the South-East, adding that the region benefitted more in terms of critical infrastructures. He described Buhari as a kind-hearted person who is always concerned about the welfare of Nigerians, which was why “he directed all the ministers to go to their respective hometowns during the Yuletide and distribute both cash and food items to the masses as part of measures to rehabilitate the less privileged in the society.” He said, ‘The idea of paying the allowances to the federal civil servants was muted as part of measures to cushion the effects of the current economic hardship in the country. “Contrary to speculations that the Federal Government is proposing a salary increase for civil servants, the true position is that the federal civil servants’ allowances would be paid in full as soon as Buhari approves the payment. “Buhari is humane and kind-hearted but those who don’t know him or who are not close to him will think that he is wicked. Having worked closely under him, I can attest to the fact that he is a responsible and trustworthy man. “This current administration is working very hard to finish strong and needed the support of all Nigerians at this dying minute.”