The Benue State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Revd. Father Hyacinth Alia, has said that the terrible situation of the state informed his decision to leave the pulpit and venture into politics. Alia stated this when he unveiled his blueprint at a press briefing held in Makurdi, the state capital, on Sunday. The Catholic priest-turned-politician insisted that his quest to turn the state into a better place and liberate the people from poverty was the reason he left the pulpit. He said, “I have a good cause to step out from the podium (pulpit) to do what I am doing because our state is in bad shape. We have a responsibility to improve our state. “Benue is too rich to be poor; to do anything less will be to not appreciate what God has done for us. My government will be centred on seven pillars, the foremost of which is to secure lives and property.” Unveiling his blueprint, the candidate said his security plan would evolve a policy of resettlement of internally displaced persons, strengthen implementation of the anti-open grazing law of the state, and introduce the use of an automated security system, among other measures, to tackle insecurity in the state. He said all public health centres in the state would be upgraded and equipped, pregnant women would have access to free care in all general hospitals, and his administration would enforce free primary education among other plans. He also promised to run an inclusive government in the process of developing the state to the level the founding fathers of the state envisioned but which had been truncated due to bad governance. He added, “When you have the wrong people in government, the result is wrong. When you play by the principle of transparency, everything works. “The green revolution will make us come alive, as it did in 1983 when Benue was indeed known as the ‘food basket.’ The present government in the state has perforated the food basket. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State bears testimony to all states that President Muhammadu Buhari provided everything a state needs, so why is Benue different?” 