The Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Wednesday set up a five-man disciplinary committee to look into petitions and reports of fact-finding committees that investigated allegations of anti-party activities levied against a former President of the Senate, Ken Nnamani, and two other members of the party in the state. The committee, headed by the State Assistant Legal Adviser, Vincent Chieyina, is to invite Nnamani and two others, including a former Commissioner in Enugu State, Ozor Mmamel, and Mr Nelson Arum, to answer charges against them. The state secretary of the party, Dr Robert Ngwu, who presented the resolution of the state executive committee after their meeting at the party’s zonal office in Enugu, said the party would not hesitate to expel or suspend Nnamani, Mmamel and Arum if found culpable. Ngwu said, “The party is fully aware of the nefarious activities of the previous administration of the party in the 2015 and 2019 general elections. “With that in mind, the party reviewed various petitions and reports from the fact-finding committees against Sen. Ken Nnamani, Ozor Mmamel, and Mr Maduka Arum, aka Mama, from their different local government areas. The petition complained about anti-party activities and other offences against the APC Constitution and the Electoral Act of 2022. “Sen. Ken Nnamani was accused of campaigning openly for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party at a rally held at the Michael Okpara Square in Enugu on January 20, 2023. “Sen. Nnamani was represented by Ben Nwoye, an expelled former Chairman of the Enugu State APC who has been working against the APC candidate (Chief Uche Nnaji), and Mr Maduka Arum, aka Mama, an acolyte and head of Ken Nnamani’s political group.” When the state Chairman, Ugochukwu Agballah, put the SEC’s resolution to a voice vote, it received a resounding yes with no dissenting voice. Agballah, however, charged the disciplinary committee to follow the established law of natural justice by giving the accused persons a fair hearing. 