The Peoples Democratic Party has hailed the people of Oyo State for their commitment and courage in supporting the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and all other party candidates in the 2023 general elections. The PDP also commends the persistence of its members and supporters in the state in expressing their support for Atiku at the flag-off of the PDP governorship campaign on Thursday, January 5, 2023, in defiance of attempts to dictate their electoral preference. This was contained in a statement on Friday by the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba. Ologunagaba stated that “The overwhelming chanting of “Atiku! Atiku!” by the resilient crowd in rejection of a request that they follow the dictate of some individuals in the presidential election summarily conveyed, in one voice, their unnegotiable resolve to vote Atiku Abubakar as the next President of our country. “The people of Oyo State as independent-minded and politically savvy have again demonstrated their sobriquet as Pace-setter in the politics of Nigeria by establishing that power lies in the Will of the people and not the endorsement or dictate of any person or group of persons. “Unambiguously, the expression of the people of Oyo State at the flag-off event firmly signposts and reaffirms the support of the south west geo-political Zone for Atiku Abubakar and all our candidates in the South West and across the country.” The PDP spokesperson, however, advised those seeking to dictate to Nigerians their electoral preferences to retrace their steps. According to him, it is clear that the people are not ready to be influenced by personal, group, or sectional considerations in their support for its presidential flag-bearer and the PDP. “Nigerians across board have found in Atiku Abubakar the desired integrity, cognate experience, capacity, ability, mental alertness, presence of mind, Pan-Nigeria deportment and required Will Power to unify and lead our nation at this critical time. “It, therefore, charges the people of Oyo State, the South West Zone and all Nigerians to remain firm in their resolve by coming out en-masse to vote as well as take every measure available in a democracy to protect their votes in the overall quest to rescue the country from the maladministration of the All Progressives Congress APC and return her to the path of national stability, peace, economic prosperity and happiness of all, that Atiku embodies,” the statement added.