The presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress, Bola Tinubu, has promised to make Nigeria better for the younger generation. He also vowed to transform the education sector and ensure that Nigerian students receive sound education and graduate as at when due. Tinubu, spoke in Umuahia the Abia State capital during his presidential rally and governorship campaign flag-off on Tuesday. He solicited for the votes of the residents of the state in the forthcoming 2023 presidential and governorship elections. The APC presidential candidate also called on the immediate past Minister of State for Mines and Steel, Uche Oga, to stop all court cases against the governorship candidate of the party Ikechi Emenike. He said, “We are politicians, I’m calling on Uche Oga to come home and let us settle the matter in our living room. There is no need to bring a their party who is neutral to a family we can settle ourselves. “To you students who are here, I appreciate your efforts today, you will not spend eight years doing a course of four years again. “I pray that God will give you the encourage to go to the poll on the election day and vote for APC.” The governorship candidate of the party in Abia State, Emenike, said the party would win the presidential, governorship, national and state Assembly elections. He reiterated that Abia had suffered underdevelopment and needed to be rescued before it could be developed again. He promised that the owning of backlog of salaries, pensions and gratuities would be a thing of the past with APC in the state government. He said, “Hope is on the way, I want our youths to know that unemployment will be a thing of past in the coming year. “I will be a father of all, we will bring back our straying party men because what is binding us together is greater than what divides us.” The Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, called on the party members in the state to work hard to reconcile their differences in order to win the election The state APC Chairman, Kingsley Ononogbu, also called on the people of the South-East not to repeat the mistake of the past by playing regional politics. He said, “Tinubu possess the capacity and competence, exposure, experience and the will to turn things around for Nigeria. “Be rest assured that our votes are you and our governorship candidate. “Our votes in the South-East is for APC in presidential and governorship elections and then we have the right to demand for fair share of the dividends of democracy.”