World Cup-winning goalkeeper Hugo Lloris has announced his retirement from international football at the age of 36 on Monday evening, DailyMail reports. The Spurs and France stopper, who won a record 145 caps and captained the side a record 122 times, bows out after the heartbreak of losing the World Cup final against Argentina in Qatar last year as France looked to retain their 2018 title. He said, ‘There comes a time when you have to know how to hand over the reins. I have always said over and over again that the French team doesn’t belong to anyone, and we all have to make sure that’s the case, me first. The French team’s official Twitter account posted a picture of a smiling Lloris with the caption, “A legend. Bravo and thank you for everything, Hugo.” Lloris’ international career stretched from 2008 to 2022 and saw him play in four World Cups and three European Championship tournaments. He captained them to global glory in Russia in 2018, before his side fell short four years later, losing 4-2 on penalties against Lionel Messi’s Argentina in December. Lloris’ former Spurs colleague Bale also announced his retirement on Monday, from both club and country duties, with immediate effect. Les Bleus boss Didier Deschamps added, “He told me about his decision a few days ago. I must – we are disappointed – respect his decision even if he still had his place in our team, as he demonstrated at the last World Cup in Doha. A very big servant of the French team bows out and I want to salute his exceptional career. “Beyond all the records that his talent and professionalism have allowed him to beat, beyond the essential role that he has played in our most beautiful conquests, Hugo is a remarkable person on a human level. “Captain when I became coach in 2012, I kept the armband for him and I never came to regret it, quite the contrary. “Hugo has a very high idea of the French team, he has always been oriented towards the collective, and he has always put the collective forward, sometimes even to his detriment. “It was a pleasure and an honour for me to be his coach. I wish all coaches have players like him to manage. Hugo has all my respect and gratitude. I wish that he will be happy. A big thank you, Hugo, for having represented your country so well.”