The New Nigeria Peoples Party candidate for Kosofe Federal Constituency seat in the House of Representatives, Abdulwaheed Odunuga, has refuted social media rumours that he has stepped down from the contest. Odunuga, popularly known as ABOO, in a statement on Monday in Lagos, said that he was fully in the race to win the seat and provide good leadership for the people of the constituency who put their confidence in him. The candidate said that he was amazed to hear earlier in the day that he had stepped down for the candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the same seat, Mrs Kafilat Ogbara. According to him, such rumour is untrue and false as he is determined not to disappoint his teeming supporters who bought him NNPP’s nomination and expression of interest form to represent them in the parliament. “I confidently reassure all residents that I have not and will not step down for anyone in the coming elections as I am poised to win at the poll. “I appeal to the good people of Kosofe Federal Constituency to go out and collect their Permanent Voter Cards and make a statement with their votes. “If you sell your vote, at the end of the day, don’t complain,” Odunuga, the National Vice Chairman, Joint Action for Good Governance, said. He promised that his campaign team would be intensifying mobilisation of voters at all the nooks and crannies of Kosofe ahead of the election. “The primary vision of our campaign team remains to change the governance and leadership narratives in Kosofe through a community-responsive, all-inclusive and quality representation at the parliament,” he said. Odunuga said that NNPP’s aggressive grassroots mobilisation and penetration drive had put the camp of other candidates in disarray. Decrying the alleged attacks and constant tearing off and destruction of posters, banners and other publicity materials of NNPP candidates in the area, Odunuga called on his supporters to be calm and peaceful. He urged the security agencies to act on various undemocratic moves by thugs to protect the democracy. Odunuga said that he was out to defend the ordinary people of the area in the parliament if elected. NAN