The Social Democratic Party has reiterated that the proposed alliance deal between the SDP and the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is real and unstoppable. The SDP disclosed this through a statement on Monday in Abuja by its National Publicity Secretary, Alfa Muhammad, although, the factional SDP last week disowned an alliance deal between Tinubu and the party. The party’s spokesperson noted however, that “the much trumpeted Tinubu-SDP proposed alliance deal is real and unstoppable. It is a plan ‘B’ option conceived since year 2020 by the authentic leaders of the SDP, to make sure that Nigerians never miss the treasure of having Asiwaju Tinubu as their next president. “The agenda, which is known and popular amongst the elected (not appointed)  national executive  members of the SDP and stakeholders is not well known to the denying Jerry Gana boys, because they are strangers who joined the party just ‘yesterday’ along with Jerry Gana who has since returned to PDP but stayed behind to allegedly destabilise our party, and thus knows little or nothing about the party’s structures and agenda.” The spokesperson therefore advised the public to ignore the faction, saying their fake claim to the party’s leadership would soon be put to an end by the Federal High Court. He added, “We will address Nigerians on the subject fully shortly.” Tinubu-SDP alliance real, unstoppable —SDP El-ameen Ibrahim, Abuja The Social Democratic Party has reiterated that the proposed alliance deal between the party and the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is real and unstoppable. The SDP disclosed this through a statement on Monday in Abuja by its National Publicity Secretary, Alfa Muhammad, although a faction of the party last week disowned an alliance deal between Tinubu and the party. The party’s spokesperson noted however, that “the much-trumpeted Tinubu-SDP proposed alliance deal is real and unstoppable. It is a plan ‘B’ option conceived since 2020 by the authentic leaders of the SDP, to make sure that Nigerians never miss the treasure of having Asiwaju Tinubu as their next president. “The agenda, which is known and popular amongst the elected (not appointed) national executive  members of the SDP and stakeholders is not well known to the denying ‘Jerry Gana boys’, because they are strangers who joined the party just ‘yesterday’ along with Jerry Gana who has since returned to the PDP but stayed behind to allegedly destabilise our party, and thus knows little or nothing about the party’s structures and agenda.” The spokesperson therefore advised the public to ignore the faction, saying their fake claim to the party’s leadership would soon be put to an end by the Federal High Court. He added, “We will address Nigerians on the subject fully shortly.”