…CP orders probe, deploys tactical team Two persons, including an ex-convict, were killed during a clash between two rival cult groups at Gambia Street in Mile 1 area of Diobu, Port Harcourt, on Saturday night. An eyewitness named the cult groups as the ‘Beach Deck of Iceland’ and ‘Castro House of Deygbam.’ The eyewitness said the Deygbam cult group led by an outlaw and former member of the rival gang reportedly ambushed the leader of the Iceland identified as Precious Adiele. The source who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of being identified told our correspondent that several machete cuts were inflicted on Precious leading to his death. The late Precious was said to be a notorious criminal who had been involved in series of robberies, even as he was a regular visitor to the Port Harcourt Correctional Centre, bug had yet to be convicted. He added, “The Degbam members after hacking their first target to death stormed a building where another member of Bar Beach Iceland cult group is believe to be residing. “When they search the compound and find out that he (the target) was not at home, they set the building on fire.” He disclosed that an elderly man who was trapped in the building set ablaze by the suspected Deygbam cultists was burnt to death. It was gathered that residents of the area and neigbouring streets scampered for safety, while the daredevil gangs were on rampage. It was gathered that the miscreants left the scene and disappeared into the thin air before the arrival of operatives from the Divisional Police headquarters and the mile one police formation. Our correspondent who visited the area on Sunday morning reports that there was tension over fears of a reprisal and counter attacks by any of the rival cult groups. When contacted, the spokesperson for the State Police Command, Grace Iringe-Koko, confirmed the death of the notorious robber (Precious Adiele), saying the deceased had recently returned from the correctional centre. Iringe-Koko, a Superintendent of Police in a text message, said, “The man killed is one Precious Adiele, age 26. “He is a member of Iceland and a notorious armed robber who had been involved in a series of robbery cases and just returned from the correctional centre. “The scene has been visited. The Commissioner of Police has deployed tactical teams to ensure no further breakdown of law and order. “The CP has also ordered the arrest of other members of the cult groups. Meanwhile, investigation is ongoing,” he said. Asked about the trapped elder resident who was reportedly burnt to death, the state police image maker promised to find out and give our reporter a feedback. SP Iringe-koko had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report, Sunday evening.