The Spokesperson for the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Council, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, has said that the economic blueprint of the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, would end rising food inflation in the country. Aniagwu stated that Atiku was the only presidential candidate that is engaged in agricultural production and would stimulate certain processes which would include; soft loans, access to land, fertilisers among others, to improve the agricultural value chain. Speaking on the PDP’s economic blueprint on AIT’s Kakaaki programme on Wednesday, Aniagwu noted that Atiku was already practicalising production and processing as a farmer, and was desirous to implement strategies aimed at improving the agricultural value chain with a view to bringing down food inflation in the country. He pointed out that “as a successful farmer, Atiku owns Adama Farms and they are into the production of beverages and other products in the food value chain. He already knows that for the private sector to have a role, you need to be able to stimulate certain processes including access to soft loans, ensure access to land are made easier. “Specifically, Atiku is very clear that to stimulate growth in the agricultural sector, you need to make access to farm inputs such as fertilisers, tractors and other needed facilities, including seedlings, much more easier for farmers to access. “Doing so will improve the food value chain, by ensuring that the man who produces must also have access to processing. “When you produce without processing, the goods will rot away and because the farmer is scared of losing his money he may sell at prices far below what its supposed to be.” On power sector reforms, Aniagwu said Atiku would ensure that states with capacity to generate power would be given opportunity to do so, just like Delta had done. “The idea of leaving power generation in the hands of the Federal Government is not good enough for a developing country like Nigeria. “He (Atiku) is going to make it possible for individuals to be able generate power like what we are doing in Delta, where almost every government facility is powered by our independent power plant.” In a related development the presidential candidate of the PDP while addressing party supporters at the Ogun State presidential campaign on Wednesday, promised to ensure the industrialisation of the state, devolve more powers to state and to the local governments. Atiku stated, “We have promised to ensure the industrialisation of Ogun State, because it is endowed with so many mineral resources and in order to create jobs and prosperity, the Federal Government under the PDP will make sure that the exploitation of those mineral resources and industrialisation, is made a priority.” He appealed to the people of the state to come out to vote and “make sure that your votes are counted and also protect your vote.” He pointed out that the APC government had failed, saying it is the responsibility of all to make sure that the country doesn’t return them to power.