The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Thursday, slammed former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his recent endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi. According to him, Obasanjo who he claimed does not know the way cannot show others the way. Tinubu spoke during the party’s presidential campaign rally at the University of Benin Sports Complex in Benin City. Recalling what Obasanjo did to his administration as the Lagos State Governor, the former governor said, “Obasanjo seized our salaries, local government monies. Do you call that person a good or a wicked man? “So, if he says he endorsed somebody, is it not poison that he is giving to you? “One who doesn’t know the way cannot show the way. He is endorsing Obi but he doesn’t know the road.” Tinubu appealed to Nigerians to vote for him, assuring them that he will bring prosperity, create jobs and secure Nigerians when elected. He said he was familiar with the route considering his records as governor of Lagos. He said, “I know how to perform. I did it in Lagos and I will do it in Nigeria. I will bring an economic hub to Edo State, give skills to the boys, start credit lending, empower small-scale industries so that they can be able to be on their own and get rid of estimated billing. “We will turn this state into an energy state. We will turn the so-called yahoo boys into experts in the manufacturing and creation of chips. We will bring long-term reforms. “We can break the shackles of poverty, ignorance and homelessness. We will do it together. We have the knowledge and the brain. Trust me, I am an expert in finding the way where there is no way. I found a way to tame the Atlantic Ocean and turned it into a money-making machine. I found a way to stop the killing drainages to channelisation and prosperity. I have done many things. I have the power of thinking and doing. “If you want prosperity, elect me. If you want skills to become rich, elect me. If you want security, elect me. If you say I should retire, you will retire knowledge, diamond and gold.” In his remarks, a former National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, solicited votes from Edo residents, saying that the former Lagos State governor has good track record and was instrumental in the fight against a single-party system.