Joy Fadeyi is the Chief Executive Officer of De Unique. She tells GBENGA BABAYALE about her brand What are your educational qualifications? I studied Mass Communication at the Kwara Polytechnic. However, I was born and raised in Lagos. What influenced you to go into the fashion business? I was motivated to become a fashion designer when I became conscious of the impact fashion has on people’s lives. An adage says, ‘Dress the way you want to be addressed’. How many employees do you have? At the moment, I have five apprentices. However, I am looking forward to providing employment for more people. The business is growing every day. Where do you see your brand in the next 10 years? I hope to be one of the best designers Nigeria has ever produced. My plan is to work with the most talented and hardworking fashion designers in the world. Do you design your own outfits? Yes, l do. How long does it take you to make an outfit? lt depends on the style of the outfit I’m making. However, across board, it usually takes a maximum of two hours. How were you able to raise capital to start your business? I worked somewhere for some months, and it was the salaries I saved that I used to start my business. Also, family members and friends also helped me. When you started the business, did friends and family support you? Yes, they were actually the ones that gave me money to start the business. What are your most memorable moments as a fashion designer? My most memorable moment was when I got a particular client. I never imagined that at that stage, I could have a client of that calibre. l was in my shop one day when she got down from her car and came to my shop. She asked if I was ‘Joy’, and I answered in the affirmative. I was quite confused as to how she knew my name. She told me that she usually saw my posts on Facebook, so she decided to come to my shop to patronise me. She then gave me a material to sew a dress for her. When I told her what it would cost her, she paid instantly without haggling. I made the outfit within three days, and she really loved it. Since then, she has been a regular customer. She has even referred some of her friends, both in Nigeria and abroad, to me. What are the challenges you face in the course of running your business? I have faced numerous challenges in the course of running the business. Sometimes, when I charge customers, they think it is expensive and that I am making a lot of profit. At other times, I try to be considerate, and charge lesser than I usually do. But on some of those occasions, I get to the market to buy materials, and realise that prices have gone up. In that case, I would have to add my own money to it. When, they come for their outfits, and I explain to them that the amount they paid did not even cover the cost of making it, they think I am trying to cheat them. Those are some of the things we face with customers. However, patience is best way to handle cases like that. How do you advertise your business? The best way I advertise my business is to put on my products. Whenever I go to church or attend events, I put on the clothes that I made, and people often come to me to make enquiries. When I tell them I made it, they ask me to make similar outfits for them. Sometimes, I also make videos and post them on social media platforms, such as Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Twitter. What is the highest amount you have ever been paid to make an outfit? The highest fee I have ever been paid to make an outfit is N50,000. What advice do you have for young people who want to go into this line of business? The advice I have for them is to start with whatever they have. As time goes on, the business will grow.