The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has promised to make Abia State a major exporter of manufactured goods if elected. He stated this on Tuesday while addressing a mammoth crowd at the party’s presidential rally at the Umuahia Township Stadium. The former Lagos State governor commended Abians for their work rate and promised to create a conducive environment that will enable them to thrive in whatever they choose to do. A statement issued by the Tinubu Media Office and signed by Tunde Rahman quoted Tinubu as saying, “Your state is a centre of production and industry. Today, my hope is renewed that together, we can achieve industrial activity unprecedented in our history. “Aba market is one of the largest in West Africa. I see it becoming a major exporter of all types of manufactured goods to Asia, North and South America and Europe. “I see this state humming with industrial activity such that it will become a world-famous centre of activity from the manufacture of clothing to that of cars, appliances and computers and their components. “We will provide better infrastructure to open the region and the entire country to the trade, export, travel and tourism in which you will excel. This includes roads, waterways, ports, rail and the provision of steady reliable power.” He also spoke of other plans for the state, saying, “The teeming youth population standing before me makes my heart glad. We have good plans for you! God’s Own Youths! You are blessed! We will empower you. There will be jobs for those who desire jobs by providing tax and other employment credits to employers, encouraging them to hire you. “My government shall support those starting their own businesses. My digital economy plan calls for one million new jobs in ICT within 24 months in office. “We are also investing in an educational system that will provide you with skills that make you globally competitive while also affording you a good standard of living,” he added. “Our national security policy will function to give peaceful living clear of violence and fear. Insecurity will be tackled using advanced technological platforms for surveillance and tracking of kidnappers and violent criminals. “Security forces will be better trained and better compensated. They will exercise restraint when needed but will also show strength whenever put to the test. “This nation will be a safe and prosperous place to live in,” he added.