Following the Friday judgement of the Osun State Election Tribunal which sacked Governor Ademola Adeleke and declared former Governor Gboyega Oyetola as the winner of the July 16, 2022 governorship election, some student bodies have kicked against the development. The National Association of Nigerian Students, Zone D, in a statement obtained by The PUNCH, signed by its Deputy Coordinator, Alao John, decried the tribunal judgement. Towing the path of Governor Adeleke, the student body also called the development a “miscarriage of justice.” NANS alleged that, “it is on record how some stalwarts of the All Progressives Congress have boasted federal might that they would win the tribunal case without any iota of doubt. “It has been observed in Nigeria that truth often surrenders to manipulations of the ‘big men.’ “Also, out of the three judgements that ought to be read, only two were read with one in support of the Peoples Democratic Party.” The South-West student body however urged the Osun people to remain calm and be law-abiding. On its part, the Osun State National Association of University Students, Campus Monitoring Committee, threatened protest over the tribunal judgement. NAUS, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Eruobami Ayobami, obtained Saturday, claimed the tribunal judgement was against the will of students. “We want to reaffirm our stand against any individual or decision that is not for justice and equity, and we would not hesitate to come out for mass protest against such act. “The leadership of our union in the state is committed to defending the rights of students at all times,” NAUS said. The PUNCH reports that mixed reactions have trailed the tribunal judgement. While stakeholders in the APC have continued to laud the judgement, the PDP have cried foul, as Adeleke also vowed to appeal ruling. The tribunal led by Justice Tertse Like cancelled election in 744 polling units due to over-voting. It subsequently ordered that the certificate of return be presented to Oyetola as it sacked Adeleke.