The Independent National Electoral Commission has said that the devolution of the Permanent Voter Cards to the wards will commence on Friday. This was made known in a statement signed by the National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, on Thursday. The Commission noted that those who applied to replace lost, damaged, or defaced PVCs could collect their PVCs at the Registration Area/wards during this period. According to the statement, the exercise will revert to the Local Government Offices of the Commission on January 15. INEC, therefore, urged validly registered voters yet to collect their PVCs to seize the devolution opportunity to the wards to do so. The statement read, “The devolution of PVC collection to the wards commences tomorrow 6th January 2023, and all validly registered voters who are yet to collect their PVCs are encouraged to seize the opportunity of the devolution to the wards to do so. After the 15th of January 2023, the exercise will revert to the local government offices of the Commission until 22nd January 2023. All eligible and valid registrants can collect their PVCs from 9.00am to 3.00pm daily, including Saturdays and Sundays. “All those that applied for replacement of lost, damaged, or defaced PVCs can collect their PVCs at the Registration Area/wards during this period and the same thing applies to those that registered prior to the 2019 general election and are yet to collect their cards. “The PVCs of those that applied for transfer are available for collection in the Local Governments and Registration Areas where they intend to vote and not in the State or Local Government where they carried out the transfer. “The Commission appreciates the patience and understanding of Nigerians who trooped to our various local government offices to collect their PVCs. In making the cards available for collection, the Commission is also working to ensure that the process is simple and hitch-free for Nigerians.”