The youth wing of the apex socio-political organisation for the Yoruba people, Afenifere and the Coalition for a Better and Brighter Nigeria group, on Wednesday intensified grassroots mobilisation to rally support for the victory of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi. The National President of Afenifere National Youth Council, Eniola Ojajuni, disclosed that the target of the grassroots mobilisation was to generate five million votes for the the LP presidential candidate Ojajuni spoke to journalists in Jos on Wednesday on the sideline of a two-day training organised  for various support groups of the Labour Party presidential candidate which held at the Ebomi Towers in Jos, the Plateau State capital The Afenifere youth leader said, “Afenifere is here to partner with CBBN in terms of how to strategise in the forthcoming election for the victory of his excellency, Mr Peter Obi who is the presidential candidate of the Labour Party. “Our target in Afenifere is to generate five million votes for him. We are doing this through voter education and and reaching out to the people to see the need for a new Nigeria which everybody is clamouring for. ” The convener of the coalition group, Isa El-Buba noted that Nigeria had suffered for so long as a result of bad leadership. According to him, the training which brought participants from different states was intended to help the Labour Party reach every electorate across the country during the forthcoming poll He said the 2023 elections is the last chance to save the country and put it back on the path of progress and development . El-Buba, who described Obi as the only presidential candidate who has what it takes to redeem the country, called on the people to vote for Obi to enable him actualise his objectives. “Nigeria cannot afford to be under Tinubu or  Atiku’s presidency because for the past 62 years, we have not enjoyed good leadership. Nigeria is ready to put a stop to that. “No amount of their money (Tinubu and Atiku) will help them this time around  because Nigerians are wiser. Their mountains will crumble and the seed of Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate will over take them. “It’s time to save Nigeria, it’s a fight to finish. We must be brave to brace the forces. “We must get the 40 million votes  target to push the Labour Party presidential candidate into victory during forthcoming election” El-Buba charged the participants.