The Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State on Friday told opposition parties in the forthcoming governorship election that the re-election of the Governor, Seyi Makinde, for another term of four years was ordained by God and that nothing could stop it. This was contained in a statement made available by the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Akeem Olatunji. Makinde and four other aggrieved PDP governors officially kicked off his re-election campaign at Mapo Hall, Ibadan, the state capital, on Thursday. However, the PDP urged the opposition parties in the state not to waste their scarce resources trying to contest against what it described as God’s project in the spirit of politicking as it was already evident with the crowd of supporters who attended the event. It also assured Makinde of convincing victory at the polls on March 11, stressing that the governor’s landmark achievements which moved the state from poverty to prosperity in less than four years in office would continue to make the PDP the political bride of the masses. Maintaining that PDP remained united and one in the state, the party, in the statement, said, “The presence of political gladiators in the party at Mapo was clear evidence that PDP is the master of the game in terms of managing its internal affairs. “Makinde’s victory after the March 11 governorship election will hit the opposition in the state like a thunderbolt. The outcome of the election will send a message to all politicians in the state that Makinde is like a season whose time has come. “Nothing else can be said apart from just gratitude. Gratitude to God for the love and support for our own God’s sent man, Makinde, gratitude to the very good people of the state, and gratitude to all members of the PDP across the entire 33 local government areas.” It added, “Yesterday (Thursday) was a very clear statement by the people themselves on who they want as their governor. The statement which was so bold became too overwhelming by the crowd such that not a single casualty was recorded. “It was indeed the gathering of the good people of the state in an open show of endorsement. We’re thrilled and confident that this show of public endorsement of Governor Seyi Makinde will be replicated at the polls. “As far as we are concerned in the state, it is PDP from top to bottom. Nobody who had visited the state before 2019 and now will argue the fact that Makinde has been an absolutely committed, selfless, visionary and prudent governor to have been able to transform the state to its present enviable height amid the most turbulent and economically challenging era in the history of Nigeria. “It is our solemn promise once again that the state will become even greater in Governor Makinde’s second term.”