The Peoples Democratic Party in Osun State on Thursday accused the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress of planning an attack on the venue of the tribunal hearing petition against the victory of the state governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke. Parties in the matter are expected to present their final written addresses before the Justice Tetsea Kume-led panel on Friday (today). The PDP, in a statement signed by its acting chairman, Dr Adekunle Akindele, was reacting to an earlier statement by the APC where it called on security agents to beef up security at the venue of the tribunal sitting in a bid to prevent attack by some unnamed politicians. The tribunal will hear the final written addresses of the parties on Friday and give its judgement at a later date. Akindele, who called on the police to invite Osun APC chairman, Mr Tajudeen Lawal, and his media adviser, Kola Olabisi, for questioning, insisted that the opposition party only adopted a ‘subterfuge of levelling allegations on a plot it has perfected.’ Akindele said, “Members of the public will recall that a few months ago, two APC members were arrested with loaded guns at the entrance of the State High Court while the tribunal proceedings were ongoing. Only the prompt intervention of vigilant members of the public saved the situation on that day. “When the APC now raises an alarm about a planned attack, we are apprehensive. We have the feeling that the APC has a sinister plot to launch an attack on the Tribunal sitting. Aware of its very bad case at the Tribunal, the APC is scheming to create mayhem to disrupt the sitting. “We consequently call on the Commissioner of Police to invite the acting Chairman of APC and the media adviser for questioning. The two of them probably have insight into the alleged plot to disrupt the Tribunal. Their testimonies will assist the Police in the maintenance of law and order. “We also use this opportunity to reassure the public that the state government is on top of the situation. No opposition party will be allowed to turn Osun into a battleground. The sitting tomorrow will be peaceful and we are convinced that the tribunal will eventually validate and confirm the election of Senator Ademola Adeleke as the Governor of Osun State,” Akindele concluded. In demanding improved security, the APC challenged the assigned security officers at the tribunal venue to discharge their duties without fear or favour with an exhibition of civility during the course of performing their official responsibilities. The statement further read in parts, “Let me appeal to the Osun State Police Command and other sister security agencies in the state that they should not treat the issue of security inside and outside the tribunal with levity. “The members of our party should continue their usual culture of decorum no matter the provocation from any quarters to be active participants in watching the imminent light at the end of the tunnel.”