The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has approved the appointment and redeployment of new Branch Chiefs, Air Officers Commanding, and Commandants of Tri-Service and Nigerian Air Force Institutions among others. He also confirmed the appointment of a new spokesperson for the service. The newly appointed and redeployed senior officers are expected to assume their offices on or before Friday, January 6, 2023. A statement by Group Captain Joel Abioye on behalf of the Director, Public Relations & Information Nigerian Air Force said the shake-up was part of a routine exercise aimed at ensuring operational efficiency and effective service delivery. The newly appointed Branch Chiefs according to the statement are; Air Vice Marshal Jackson Yusuf, formerly, Chief of Policy and Plans, Headquarters NAF who is now the Chief of Defence Policy and Plans, Defence Headquarters (DHQ), Abuja,  AVM Idi Lubo, erstwhile  Commandant Armed Forces Resettlement Centre is now Chief of Policy and Plans HQ NAF, AVM Mohammed Yakubu, immediate past Commandant Air Force Institute of Technology is now appointed Chief of Aircraft Engineering, HQ NAF, AVM Ayoola Jolasinmi, former CDPP, DHQ is now the Chief of Defence Space Administration while the erstwhile Commandant Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, AVM Anthony Tuwase are now the Chief of Defence Transformation and Innovation, DHQ. Also, AVM Paul Masiyer is now the Chief of Logistics, HQ NAF, AVM Ibikunle Daramola the erstwhile Air Officer Commanding, Ground Training Command now the Chief of Communications Information Systems, HQ NAF, AVM Samuel Chinda takes over as Chief of Air Intelligence, HQ NAF while AVM Anthony Ndace is now the Air Secretary, HQ NAF. Also affected by the new appointments are AVM Emmanuel Wonah, former Chief of Aircraft Engineering who is now the Commandant of Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, AVM Charles Ohwo, former CDTI who has now been appointed as the Commandant of Armed Forces Resettlement  Centre, Lagos, AVM Paul Jemitola, the immediate past Air Secretary is now the Commandant, Air Force Institute of Technology, Kaduna and  AVM Abraham Adole as the Commandant, Air Force War College, Makurdi. The newly appointed AOCs are AVM Sayo Olatunde, former  Commandant Air Force War College who is now the AOC, Ground Training Command, Enugu, AVM Ebimobo Ebiowe is now the AOC Mobility Command, Yenagoa. Also, former Director of Public Relations and Informatio , Air Commodore  Edward Gabkwet, has been appointed Commander 551 NAF Station, Jos while Air Cdre Wapkerem Maigida is now the new NAF Spokesperson. Air Cdre Olayinka Oyesola takes over as the Air Component Commander (Joint Task Force North East) Operation Hadin Kai. While congratulating the new appointees, Amao charged them to bring their professional experiences to bear and continually explore new methods of proffering workable solutions and renewed strategies to resolving the security challenges in the country.