The Spokesperson for the Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council, Yunusa Tanko, has boasted that the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi will get more endorsements from elder statesmen in Nigeria. Yunusa said that Obi’s presidential race was not an individual project, but rather cuts across all the states in the country. The LP campaign spokesperson disclosed this in an exclusive conversation with our correspondent on Saturday, on comments credited to the Senate Whip, Senator Orji Kalu, that the LP presidential candidate was working for the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Senator Kalu made the comment few days ago on a Channels Television political programme, ‘One-on-one’. When asked whether the LP presidential candidate would get more endorsements from relevant figures in the country’s polity, Tanko said.”Sure, as we speak today this particular quest is not about an individual, it is a collective fight to get Nigeria out of the present quagmire. So, every state is expected to work for this project.” Recall that former President Olusegun Obasanjo in his New Year message  to Nigerians endorsed Obi in an open letter urging the youths to be focused on their choice and to take the 2023 general elections serious. While quoting the former president he said “None of the contestants is a saint but when one compares their character, antecedents, their understanding, knowledge, discipline and vitality that they can bring to bear and the great efforts required to stay focused on the job, particularly looking at where the country is today and with the experience on the job that I personally had, Peter Obi as a mentee has an edge.” Commenting further he stressed, “Peter Obi is working for the Nigerian people and he has vowed that he is going to change the narrative of Nigeria from a consumption stage to a production stage. I think all those who are trying to associate themselves with the progress of Mr. Peter Obi-Datti are just trying to gain public notice. As we are speaking we are coasting to victory to the Nigerian people.” He emphasised that “This is just what the former President Olusegun Obasanjo said that if you are looking for somebody with track record, vision, character, and physical attributes with mental capacity that is exactly what Peter Obi epitomises. Peter Obi is strongly working to get Nigeria out of the woods.”