The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has appeared in public after a health scare as he held a meeting with some candidates of the All Progressives Congress ahead of the forthcoming general elections in February. In a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Richard Olatunde, the governor met with the candidates at the Government House, Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital, on Tuesday. Before the meeting, the CPS to the governor had earlier in a statement, said there was no cause for alarm on the health status of his principal, saying he (Akeredolu) was “recuperating speedily”. At the meeting, Akeredolu was said to have announced dates for the party’s senatorial campaign rallies in the state and charged party leaders and members to work hard for the coming elections. According to the governor, Ondo South Senatorial Campaign rally will hold on January 23, 2023, in Okitipupa while the rally for Central Senatorial district will come up on January 30, 2023 in Ondo town and the North Senatorial Campaign rally will be held on February 6, 2023 in Owo, Owo Local Government Area of the state. He expressed assurance that the party would emerge victorious in the elections. He said, ” the APC is the party to beat in the state.” Earlier, the state Chairman of the party, Mr. Ade Adetimehin, thanked the governor for the successful presidential campaign rally held in the state. “From reports, the rally is adjudged the best. We must keep the tempo going. We have laid our hands on the plow and there is no looking back. The Presidential election is going to be ours, the Senate and House of Representatives are also going to be ours. We will win all the House of Assemby seats. “We must work hard for this election. Across the organs of the party, people love us because our people love the government. We can’t be pushed aside. We have a dependable and formidable leader. Our candidates are the best. We are going to give the best in terms of the result. By the time the result is out, we will beat Lagos State. In beating Lagos State, we are talking about the percentage. We will count the total number of voters and the percentage won. “During the last presidential election, people thought we lost the election, we didn’t lose. Because this state is progressive. There was a crisis then, but today the party is United under Governor Akeredolu.”