The Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, has predicted that the immediate past governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, would return to office before July 5 this year. Owoeye, who spoke at the inauguration of the Osun State branch of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council in Osogbo on Thursday, further noted that the defeat suffered by the All Progressives Congress in the July 16 Osun governorship poll was a temporary setback. He then urged members of the party to work for the victory of Tinubu and other APC candidates in the 2023 general elections. According to him, “In 2019, the Supreme Court gave its final verdict on July 5, affirming the victory of Oyetola as the governor. If you know them, go and tell them that before July 5, 2023 Oyetola will be returned as Osun Governor. “They thought they could manipulate the results of the election in their favour, but we thank God that the results of the Bimodal Voter’s Accreditation System (BVAS) exposed them. “So, Please, the presidential election is very important to us and we want you to begin to mobilize our people to vote massively for our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and all other candidates of our party.” In his remarks before inaugurating the campaign council, Oyetola extolled the leadership qualities of Tinubu, describing him as a genius and a problem solver. Oyetola, while tasking members of the party to remain resolute and united, also expressed delight in the firmness of the party’s structure and commitment of the leadership and members of the APC in the state. He commended the loyalists of the party for their unalloyed support, loyalty in the face of daunting challenges, and for continually remaining resolute to the cause of progressivism especially since after the July 16 governorship election in the state. The spokesperson for Osun governor, Olawale Rasheed, could not be reached for a reaction to Owoeye’s claim as calls to his line rang out and he had not responded to the text sent to him on the matter as of the time of filing this report.