The Atiku-Okowa presidential campaign has urged Nigerians not to miss the opportunity to expel the corrupt All Progressives Congress-led government by collecting their permanent voter cards. The campaign team disclosed this following the extension of the collection of PVCs by the Independent National Electoral Commission by one week. The group in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Saturday in Abuja urged Nigerians to maximize the opportunity by going out en masse to take possession of their PVCs in readiness to vote. Ologbondiyan said, “The only chance of expelling the insensitive, corrupt APC, that has brought monumental anguish and pains to our country in the last seven and half years, is by collecting their PVCs and the PDP to instate a purposeful leadership and commence the onerous task of rebuilding our nation. “Our campaign appreciates the tremendous support, contributions and solidarity by overwhelming majority of Nigerians in furtherance of their consensus that Atiku is the candidate with the desired experience, capacity, competence, integrity and national acceptability to lead our nation out of the abyss in which she has been sunk by the APC. Commenting further the spokesperson stated, “All eligible Nigerians, irrespective of ethnic, religious, sectional or even political affiliations must therefore rise to the occasion, collect their PVCs, go the polls, elect and defend their votes as a patriotic duty to redeem and rescue our nation at this critical time. The campaign stands with Nigerians in charging INEC “to put all measures in place to ensure free, fair, transparent and credible electoral process that will be a reflection of the Will of the people as expressed at the ballot. It noted that the campaign also urges the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to ensure that all institutions charged with the responsibilities of delivering credible polls to Nigerians deliver on their respective mandates in the collective interest of our nation. It advised the APC and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to read the handwriting on the wall by apologising to the nation, accepting their general rejection and conceding defeat ahead of the presidential election.