The South-East Zonal Organising Secretary, All Progressives Congress, Dozie Ikedife (jnr), has said that the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has all it takes to win the election in Anambra and South-East. Ikedife also revealed that there are powerful indications that have boosted Tinubu’s chances to win more votes in Anambra and South-East than Peter Obi of the Labour Party, and Peter Umeadi of the All Progressives Grand Alliance. He stated these in an interview with journalists on Monday, in Nnewi, Anambra State. He added that the Presidency is about delegating duties to the right people and putting the right people to the right tasks, adding that Tinubu is a master in identifying talents, and giving talents the right opportunity to work for the greater goals. Ikedife said the APC has national spread and national acceptance and controls the Federal Government and the majority of the states in Nigeria, adding that the APC has been able to deliver good governance to Nigerians over the years. He said, “We appreciate the fact that APGA is domiciled in Anambra State. We also acknowledge that the OBIdient Movement is powerful in Anambra and the South-East; but this time around – as far as the February 25 presidential election is concerned, APC will change the narrative. “Obviously, APC is very strong in Anambra with formidable structures. APC has two ministers from Anambra State. Chris Ngige is the Minister of Labour and Employment, and Sharon Ikeazor is the Minister of State for the Environment. “We also have Ben Akabueze as Director in the Budget Office; Margery Okadigbo as the Chairman of the NNPC Board; as well as George Moghalu as the Executive Chairman of NIWA. All of them are sons and daughters of the state, and their positions will play very important roles in delivering results for APC in the coming elections.” On the issue of age being a barrier to Tinubu’s aspiration, he contended that the presidency is not all about age; but about being able to understand superior argument and logic. He said, “Presidency is about delegating duties to the right people and putting the right people to the right tasks. Tinubu is a master in identifying talents and giving talents the right opportunity to work for greater goals. “Presidency is not about weight lifting. It is about sitting down, talking with your team, and delegating assignments. I believe that with the kind of experience that Tinubu has, he has the capacity to lift the economy of Nigeria, and place it in the right part of development. “Tinubu has the best manifesto. I all his undertakings, he has shown consistency. The mind-bugling developmental milestones in Lagos today are ideas ventilated by Tinubu. Tinubu is a master of good governance, and I have no doubt in my mind that he will replicate the same if elected president.” On the argument that the South-East should be allowed to produce a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction, Ikedife contended that what is necessary is the person that will provide good governance. “I don’t think that you and I care at all if the person that built the Second Niger Bridge is from the South-East or not. People that ply the bridge are happy but do not care if it was built by a person from the north or South-East. What should be important to us is the person that provides good governance, and is able to deliver results,” he added.