The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), joined the All Progressives Congress campaign train on Monday in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. Buhari, who made his second appearance on the campaign trail, after the maiden flag-off of the presidential campaigns, appealed to the electorate to vote for Tinubu as the next president, saying he will work for them and transform the country. He supported the party’s presidential standard bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to seek the support of the electorate for the party’s candidates at all levels. The duo also called on the people of Adamawa State to make history by electing the first female governor in the country by voting for Senator Ayishatu Binani, who is the APC candidate in the state. “She is brilliant, driven, and result-oriented. She will perform better for the state,” Tinubu said at the rally, which was held at the Maidoki Ground, Yola. Speaking of Buhari, who also graced the campaign rally, Tinubu said the former military head of state has laid a solid foundation for the country and promised to build on it if elected. The APC candidate also thanked the president, for attending the rally, saying he was deeply honoured by the gesture. Meanwhile, a statement signed by the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, and titled “President Buhari urges voters in Adamawa to elect the first female governor and make history,” quoted Buhari as saying that Binani has consistently worked for the welfare of the state and indigenes over many years. At the same event, Tinubu, while speaking of his plans for the North-East, where his running mate, Kashim Shettima, hails from, noted his intention to turn the region around by deploying modern dynamics in the agricultural sector. He said, “I envision productive farmlands that produce food abundant enough to feed the state, help feed the rest of the nation, and even export to a world in need of our dynamic contribution to humanity. I envision both manufacturing hubs as well as agricultural hubs that will allow you to produce finished products that will expand the local economy, create jobs, and increase the standard of living for all of you. What I promise is real and achievable. Give me and Shettima the mandate to achieve this.” Taking a swipe at his counterpart from the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, the former Lagos State governor was quoted as saying, “I hear that a former vice president who comes from Adamawa wants to return to Aso Villa again. You have to decide whether you owe him your vote simply because he is from here or whether you owe yourself a better nation and future. “If you believe a better tomorrow is possible, then you cannot support Vice President Privatise Everything. If you give him the nation, he will sell all he can and leave you with nothing.” In his remarks, the APC National Chairman, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, called on voters to elect Tinubu for president and Sen. Binani for governor of Adamawa State.