The presidential campaign council of the Peoples Democratic Party has demanded an apology from the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, over corruption allegations made against its standard bearer, Atiku Abubakar. In a press conference on Wednesday, the spokesperson for the campaign team, Kola Ologbondiyan, told Tinubu that as his diversionary scheme against Atiku had failed, he should tender an unreserved apology to the former vice president. The APC PCC had on Monday, during a world press conference, called for Atiku’s arrest over corruption claims. The world press conference has continued to rise dust from both camps of the PDP and APC. Reacting to the call, Ologbondiyan stated that since Tinubu had opened up on the allegations of corruption, the campaign was prepared to assist him to fill the gaps he wanted closed. Ologbondiyan said, “Like the age-long aphorism states, those who dig pits for the innocent always fall into them. This is the case in the vexatious plots by Asiwaju Tinubu to divert attention from his litany of atrocities by seeking to impugn on the impeccable character of our candidate, Atiku Abubakar, with unfounded controversy of corruption. “Bola Tinubu, sensing that his many alleged corrupt activities, especially his fleecing of Lagos State with many Special Purpose Vehicle companies was about to come to light, rushed to allegedly hire a serial blackmailer, as he has always done, to foul the public space with fabricated allegations against Atiku Abubakar.” He, therefore, advised the presidential candidate of the APC to come out clean and speak to these damning money laundering allegations against him, adding that he should explain to Nigerians “how billions of naira belonging to Lagos State and meant for the welfare of the people, reportedly found its way into soft alliance and ended in bits and pieces in foreign currencies into domiciliary accounts allegedly owned by him in commercial banks.” “We also challenge Asiwaju Tinubu to explain to Nigerians how, as Lagos State governor, he awarded the exclusive right of tax collection in Lagos State to his alleged proxy company, Alpha Beta, as well as the allegations that the SPV was used to allegedly siphon over N100bn belonging to Lagos State,” he said. Furthermore, he stated, “If anyone is to be arrested and disqualified from the presidential race on account of corruption, certainly, that person is not Atiku Abubakar but Bola Tinubu.”