Titi Abubakar, wife of the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, on Sunday urged residents in Lagos State to see the forthcoming election as an opportunity to use their votes to put an end to the continued rule by one party in the state. Speaking during a town hall meeting in Lagos State, Titi, who said she was born and bred in the state, described Atiku as a unifier who possessed the required experience to fix Nigeria as a former vice president of the country. She said, “One party has been ruling this state; we have to fight for ourselves. We have been in bondage for too long, we have to fight for our children. “Enough is enough. My husband, Atiku, has a covenant with Nigerians. He promised his life to do so much for Nigeria because Nigeria has done so much for him. “Atiku has five agendas: he is a unifier, he wants to unify Nigeria; Atiku wants insecurity in Nigeria to stop; he wants to restructure Nigeria. “Atiku wants to educate parents and children and even people living with disabilities. All of these depend on you and me. “If you vote for Atiku, he will fulfil his promises as he has said. Atiku wants to wipe our tears. He matches his words with authority. Atiku wants to rescue, restore, restructure, rebuild and bring back lost glory to Nigeria. If you vote Atiku, you have voted for me, your daughter and I will not forget you.” In his remark, the PDP governorship candidate in the state, Abdul-Azeez Adediran, aka Jandor, expressed confidence that the main opposition party would unseat the ruling party at the central and state levels. “This will be the very first time we will defeat the APC. We have been going to the people from ward to ward. In Lagos, we believe in the promise of better tomorrow for the people,” Adediran said. The PDP deputy governorship candidate, Funke Akindele, charged women to keep mobilising votes in all nooks and crannies of the state. Also speaking, the PDP chieftain, Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu, said, “We will not allow our mandate to be stolen in Lagos State. The time has come. If PDP emerges, we shall reform all wrongs.”