The Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure, Prof. Mohammad Haruna, has said that the agency has developed 150 innovative products. He said the innovations surpassed different sectors and geographies of the national economic landscape. A lot of made-in-Nigeria products would soon be in the market based on the inventions, he said. Haruna made the disclosures while speaking with journalists in Lagos after receiving Public Service Icon Award from The Sun Publishing Limited. He said NASENI was undergoing developmental transformation because the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) had opted for the full activation of the Act of the agency. He said, “The new NASENI was made possible by the support and commitments of the governing board, the management and staff of NASENI and all its development institutes/centres across the country. “The aggregate of the efforts, activities and results across NASENI system has been acknowledged nationally. The development of over 150 innovative products which are outcomes and outputs of research for development is worthy of acknowledgement. I am indeed glad and proud to share this celebration with the entire NASENI family for your contributions thus far.” Haruna explained how full activation of the law by Buhari  had helped NASENI to come up with rapid  and sustainable inventions. He added, NASENI under my leadership is undergoing developmental transformation through the full activation of the law that establishes the agency under the present administration of President Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rted.). “This new NASENI can be chronicled as a model agency of rule of law in action. My sincere appreciation goes to the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed forces of Nigeria who is equally the chairman of the NASENI governing board for his commitment to ensuring the rule of law prevails by giving the necessary approvals for a new NASENI to be evolving.  