The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Friday, promised to lead an inclusive government, assuring Nigerians that he and his running mate, Kashim Shettima would not fall apart. According to him, Nigerians would not experience the quarrelsome style of leadership between 1999 and 2007 in which former President Olusegun Obasanjo and his vice, Atiku Abubakar, fought in public. Tinubu stated these in his address during a town hall meeting with the youth in Abuja organized by Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State with the theme, “Nigeria 2023: Setting the youth agenda. “I and Shettima won’t abuse each other in Wuse market like Obasanjo and Atiku. I don’t want to say this but I can’t help it,” Tinubu said. The former governor of Lagos State was accompanied at the event held at Chida Hotel by Bello (Kogi), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano) ex-governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole of Edo State, Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare and many chieftains of the APC. He promised to serve Nigeria “tirelessly, faithfully and honestly” if he clinches the cliches the office in the February 25 election. While promising security agencies and personnel that they would be properly trained, compensated and managed, he called on the youths to vote him into office, saying they would not regret it. Assuring that the youths would play a vital role in steering the wheel of his administration, he vowed to end the incessant shutting down of the nation’s universities because of strikes by Academic Staff Union of Universities, saying, “four years will be four years. “There will be student loans and when you start working and have the capacity to pay you will pay. We will build additional refineries and the social welfare will continue in a more refined way”, he told the crowd. Tinubu said he purposefully surrounded himself with brilliant youths because he believed in a democracy of ideas, teamwork and collaboration. According to him, he would create a thriving digital economy where those interested in pursuing careers of integrity in ICT would be able to do so. He said, “If given the opportunity to be your President, I will serve tirelessly, faithfully and honestly. I will incorporate the energy, innovation and determination of youths all across my cabinet. “I will create a thriving and conducive environment for you to complete your education, start work or start a business, and earn a decent wage. With hard work and focus, you will once again be able to buy a car or a motorbike, buy a house, settle down, start a family and create a better life. I have plans to actualize all these dreams and can confirm that with your support these dreams will become a reality. “The time is now. I am offering up myself, my skills, my expertise, my passion and my track record to usher us into a better future. In this future hope is renewed, security is restored, opportunities are available, and good success is achievable. My running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and I are here today with a message for renewed hope. It is anchored on a promise for a secure and prosperous Nigeria. “To be standing in the Federal Capital Territory today, the seat of government, and be welcomed by so many young people is truly a dream come true. The work we are doing, the future proofing we are doing – it is for you! “I believe in bringing together the most competent hands, the brightest minds, and the most passionate persons. This was the strategy I used in Lagos, ignoring gender, age and states of origin, our team built a Lagos that continues to grow along the same trajectory. It is economically sound, globally competitive and world renowned. This is our plan for the whole of Nigeria should we be elected into office in February. So elect us and let us get started. “As we seek to become a nation of creators and not just consumers your role is key: “I promise that during my administration we will generate, transmit, and distribute sufficient and affordable electricity to ensure you have the power you need to light up your lives and power your dreams. We will build on the foundation laid by President Buhari’s Presidential Power Initiative among other important interventions working to make the power sector viable and sustainable. “I promise security agencies and personnel that are properly trained, properly compensated and properly managed. This will ensure that everyone who means well for society will be protected and not harassed, supported and not unduly stopped and searched. The nation will be safe, it will be secure and trust between security agencies and good youthful citizens will be restored. “I promise a thriving digital economy where those interested in pursuing careers of integrity in ICT will be able to do so. We will also ensure that Nigeria can take greater advantage of relatively recent innovations such as blockchain technology. We will reform government policy to encourage the prudent use of blockchain technology in finance and banking, identity management, revenue collection and the use of crypto assets. “We shall implement policies that will train and build capacity among Nigeria’s large and youthful population to take greater advantage of the opportunities presented in ICT. I promise to invest in the infrastructure required to boost an already successful entertainment industry. Working with private sector partners we will bridge the existing gaps to build modern media centers and upgrade existing entertainment venues and stadia across the country to world-class standards. “My administration will reform the education sector by focusing on quality, access, funding, management, effectiveness, and competitiveness. I promise, we will provide good and quality education in tune with 21st Century demands. Our youth are some of the most brilliant people in the world, therefore we will equip you and ensure you are globally competitive and never left behind. “We promise to give you a fairer deal. We promise to deliver results. We promise that the hope we are renewing will never be dashed. “You shall become the leading catalysts driving the economic resurgence. You will be empowered for individual and collective success. There will be opportunities across board, and they will be for you. Let us go together!”