Major stakeholders in the Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State have asked a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja to stop the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), from inaugurating the Governing Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission pending the hearing and determination of the suit filed in Court. The Plaintiffs in the suit are the former Clerk of the National Assembly and also Chairman Board of Trustees of Ugboland Development Congress, Oluyemi Ogunyomi, Mr. Adebowale Karaki, Dr. Mann Ali, who are also the trustee and Secretary of Ugboland Development Congress, respectively. Others are Incorporated Trustees of Ilaje Advancement Forum, Idowu Mafimisebi, Olaniran Obele and Ige Asemudara, all lawyers representing Ilaje Lawyers Forum. In the suit filed on Tuesday, January 3, 2023, at the Abuja headquarters of the Federal High Court by Senior Advocate of Nigeria and human rights activist, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, the Plaintiffs are seeking an order of injunction to restrain the President from inaugurating, recognising or dealing with Mr. Charles Ogunmola as the Executive Director, Projects of the Niger Delta Development Commission since he is from Owo in the Northern axis of Ondo State and not an indigene of the oil-producing area of the State. The other defendants in the suit are the National Assembly, the Senate, the Attorney-General of the Federation, and Mr. Charles Ogunmola. Particularly, the plaintiffs are seeking an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the 1st – 4th Respondents whether by themselves, their servants or agents, and/ or privies from taking any step or further step in treating and/ or dealing with or in any manner according to the 5th Respondent the status of Executive Director of Projects of the Niger-Delta Development Commission, pending the hearing and final determination of the Originating Summons herein. “An order of interlocutory injunction restraining the 5th Respondent from presenting himself out or in any manner parading himself or performing the functions and duties of Executive Director of Projects of the Niger-Delta Development Commission, pending the hearing and final determination of the Originating Summons herein. “An order directing the parties herein, whether by themselves, their agents, servants or otherwise howsoever to maintain the status quo ante bellum in respect of the exercise of the statutory duties of the 1st and 3rd Respondents in the appointment of an Executive Director of Projects of the Niger-Delta Development Commission, pending the hearing and final determination of the Originating Summons filed herein. “An order of interlocutory injunction  restraining the Respondents, whether by themselves, their servants or agents and/ or privies from taking any step(s) in relation to or that may jeopardize, affect, ridicule the fair and just determination of the subject matter and issues surrounding the substantive matter, pending the hearing and final determination of the Originating Summons herein.”