HAVING persistently frittered away opportunities to attain growth and sustainable development, the new forecast by the International Monetary Fund that a third of the global economy will slip back into recession in 2023 is a disquieting portent for Nigeria’s economy. Similarly, the World Bank has trimmed its forecast for many regions. In its latest Global Economic Prospects report, it pegs sub-Saharan Africa’s per capital income growth over 2023-24 at 1.2 per cent. This spells trouble for Nigeria. For an economy that requires a consistent double-digit growth to stave off disaster, this would worsen poverty, already at 133 million of the population. Ever before the warning by IMF Managing Director, Kristalina Georgieva, Nigeria’s economy had been beset by ills – from high inflation to the forex crisis and steep unemployment to shabby infrastructure. The energy riddle is ever present. Insecurity, a long-running petrol crunch, and high interest rates complete the depressing picture. From a negative gross domestic product growth rate of -1.8 per cent in 2020, mainly attributed to the COVID-19 lockdowns, Nigeria attained 3.6 per cent growth in 2021. GDP growth rate was 2.25 per cent in third quarter 2022, slowing from Q2’s 3.54 per cent expansion. That missed the estimates of a 2.95 per cent rise. In December, the World Bank downgraded Nigeria’s growth rate from an earlier 3.2 per cent to 2.9 per cent for 2023. “Even countries that are not in recession, it would feel like recession for hundreds of millions of people,” said the IMF chief. She bases her prognosis of a fresh global recession on Russia’s war in Ukraine, higher interest rates, a new surge in the spread of COVID-19 in China, and deceleration of the United States, European Union, and Chinese economies. The World Bank report warned that another fresh wave of recession in 2023 would mean that for the first time in 80 years, two global recessions occurred within the same decade. “Small states are especially vulnerable to such shocks because of their reliance on external trade and financing, limited economic diversification, elevated debt, and susceptibility to natural disasters,” the report said. This applies to Nigeria. In June 2022, the development lender had forecast the global economy at 3.0 per cent in 2023. It has reviewed this downward with a new estimate of 1.7 per cent. It is reckoned that this is the slowest projection outside the 2009 and 2020 recessions since 1993. Nigeria’s economy is on the razor’s edge. Inflation rose for 10 straight months to 21.47 per cent in November, falling slightly to 21.34 per cent in December. The naira exchanges at the parallel market at close to N800 for $1. The debt profile is projected to hit N77 trillion should the National Assembly securitise the N22.7 trillion ‘Ways and Means’ advances and approve the new N5 trillion planned borrowing by the Federal Government. Plainly, Nigeria is ill-prepared for a global recession, and lacks the economic buffers to alleviate its impact. This is unlike the 2008-09 global economic meltdown, which plunged many Western economies into recession. Then, Nigeria had a buoyant $64 billion foreign reserves, GDP of 6.29 per cent, a performing non-oil sector, and low external debt that helped it to escape a downturn. Sadly, these indicators have disappeared. Now, the macroeconomic indices have worsened under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). On Buhari’swatch, the economy has witnessed a sharp fall in Foreign Direct Investment into Nigeria by 81.46 per cent from $8.49 billion in Q1 2019 to $1.57 billion in the corresponding quarter of 2022, per the National Bureau of Statistics. Twice (2016 and 2020), it fell into recession. The country’s debt burden, from N11 trillion in 2015, has ballooned to N44.3 trillion. There is little to show for the humongous borrowing. The result is the loss of investor confidence, increased capital flight, and surge in production cost. According to a report by South Africa’s Rand Merchant Bank, Nigeria has dropped from Africa’s top 10 investment destinations to 14th. At 12 per cent, industry, the third largest employer of labour (after the services [53.03 per cent] and agriculture [34.97 per cent]), has been plagued with high cost of production, making it difficult to thrive. Electricity and the difficulty in accessing forex to pay for imported machinery and raw materials have stifled its growth. Member companies of the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria reportedly spent N639 billion on alternative energy sources between 2014 and 2021 due to poor supply. Since 2015, Buhari has squandered the opportunity bequeathed to him to tackle corruption, revitalise, and diversify the economy, and end insecurity. The thrust of his economic policy is to borrow at pace. Consequently, debt servicing is gulping a high percentage of revenue. At the 2023 World Economic Forum in Switzerland, the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, said Nigeria planned to reduce debt servicing-to-revenue ratio from 80 per cent to 60 per cent in 2023. To reverse the dire projections, Buhari should do things differently. Swiftly, he should work on the climate of insecurity. Terrorism, banditry, kidnapping, and oil theft on a grand scale should be addressed holistically. This will allow farmers and commercial activities to thrive; and FDI to flow in again. The President should overcome the energy crisis. Rather than depending on imports, he should target the domestic production of petroleum products. This can be achieved by privatising the four moribund public refineries and initiating competition among the emerging local refineries headlined by the 650,000 barrels per day Dangote Refinery. It should resolve the issue of feedstock for the local crude refiners. Deliberately, the Federal Government should collect its taxes. Tax dodgers should be prosecuted, and the cost of governance crashed. The 36 state governments should stop depending on the monthly federal allocations but engineer their states to be in the forefront of economic activities and becoming independent economic units.