The ruling All Progressives Congress has asked the incumbent governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, to prepare his handover notes in anticipation of victory for the former Chief of Air Staff, Sadique Abubakar. This was disclosed in a statement released in Abuja by the APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yakubu Ajaka, on Monday. The warning was coming in the wake of the report that the rally was abandoned over a faulty sound system. The PUNCH reported that the power supply to the venue of the rally went off shortly after the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, mounted the podium and began delivering his speech. But Ajaka believed that despite the setback, the party was optimistic that the people of Bauchi State would vote massively in favour of the APC governorship candidate and its presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The APC image maker further stated that the massive turnout of the residents to show support for Tinubu on Monday “is a verdict on the maladministration of the PDP in Bauchi State which people are yearning for urgent change.” He said, “Tinubu is a promise keeper and he will keep to his promise with the state and the party members if given the opportunity. He won’t forget this show of love which he has received today in Bauchi during our presidential campaign rally. “By the February 25, 2023 presidential election, it will dawn on the PDP elements in Bauchi that it is already over. I want to assure the people of Bauchi State and Nigerians that the state specifically will witness another success story by bringing back the government of the APC under the leadership of Alhaji Sadique Abubakar. “The PDP-led government in Bauchi State should be preparing its handover notes by now because the APC is winning both the presidency for Asiwaju and governorship election for Sadique Abubakar by a landslide.” Continuing, Ajaka urged the people to file out for the APC and be resolute in the quest to change the current administration in the  state. He described the APC governorship candidate in Bauchi as a “tested and trusted personality who had served Nigeria meritoriously” but not tired, hence his passion and mission to turn around the fortune of Bauchi State as a governor.