The management of the Confluence University of Science and Technology, Osara, Kogi State, has terminated the appointment of seven staff members found guilty of collecting double salaries. A statement issued by the institution’s Public Relations Officer, David Balogun, on Friday revealed that the management had to take the drastic action after an audit carried out on CUSTECH by the office of the Kogi State Auditor General revealed that the staff members in question were conveniently receiving salaries from two state government establishments. The management revealed the names of the staff members affected to include Mr. Shaibu Musa of the security unit, CUSTECH, who was discovered to have been collecting salary from his former workplace at the Kogi State Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH on 7th April, 2021. Mr. Abubakar Ali of the works and maintenance department was discovered to have been collecting salary from his former workplace, Lokoja Local Government Authority, since his assumption of duty at CUSTECH on January 11, 2022. Others, Mr. Francis Amoto Lawal of the Bursary Department, was discovered to have been collecting salary from his former workplace, Science, Technical Education and Teaching Service Commission since his assumption to duty on July 7, 2021 while Mr. Philip Anakobe Onotu of the works and maintenance department, has been collecting salary from his former workplace at the office of the Deputy Governor, since his assumption of duty on September 15, 2021. Mr. Abdulmajeed Damudi of the department of biological sciences, was collecting salary from his former workplace, Science, Technical Education and Teaching Service Commission, since his assumption to duty on February 9, 2021. The list also includes Mr. Folorunsho Joseph Ojo of the bursary department, who was still collecting salary from his former workplace Kabba/Bunu Local Government Authority since his assumption to duty on January 11, 2022. The case that led to the termination of the appointment of Mr. Haruna Yakubu, a Senior Patrolman of the security unit, was as a result of his absconding from duty since November 24, 2022, an action considered as a serious misconduct and breach of the terms of his employment. The affected staff members whose names the Office of the Auditor General sent down to CUSTECH were invited for an interactive session with a Panel constituted by the Vice Chancellor, Engr. Prof. Salawu Sadiku of which they were found culpable, and therefore found guilty of holding more than one full time paid job in the Public Service of the federation, state and local government according to the CUSTECH staff cond