 The Nigerian Communications Commission has said the destruction of telecommunications facilities in the country is affecting standard service delivery on digital platforms. The Vice Chairman of the commission, Umar Danbatta, disclosed this on Thursday in a gathering titled ‘Youth, Civil Society, and Stakeholder Summit on Curbing the Destruction and Vandalisation of Telecom and Other Critical National Infrastructure in Nigeria During the Elections’, held in Abuja. Danbatta, who was represented by the Head, Wireless Network, Chukwuma Nwauwu, disclosed the commission is always committed to improving service delivery by protecting the digital space. “We received reports of vandalisation of telecom infrastructure from the operating telecom companies and these acts impact on the delivered quality of services and the availability of the digital platforms,” he said. He mentioned some of the impacts of vandalising telecommunication to include disruption of the network services and disconnection of digital platforms, congestion of alternative backup routes/networks, interruption of social and economic activities, loss of revenue, ripple effect on other networks and network elements, delay in network recovery. Danbatta said the forthcoming elections, national activities and programmes, communication with friends and families, conducting banking activities especially use of Point of Sales machines depend on infrastructure of the telecommunication system. Speaking on the general elections, he said the commission will be working with the Independent National Electoral Commission to ensure a free and fair election across the country. “The NCC is working very hard and collaborating with INEC to ensure that election results are transmitted electronically as required by law. “The general election is only a few days from today and technology as you are all aware will play a crucial and key role in delivering free and fair elections to Nigerians. “We all have a duty to protect the national telecom infrastructures as such to benefit from the dividends of democracy and good governance.” He said the telecommunication subscriptions grew from 206 million active lines in June 2022, to 222 million in December 2022, noting that the expansion in the digital economy shows NCC is committed to improving telecommunication services and infrastructure in the country.