The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on Thursday in Sokoto, sought the blessing of the Sultan of Sokoto, expressing their desire to win the February 25 election. This was as Buhari urged the electorate to trust Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima, with power to succeed him as they would “build on the successes” of his regime. “My wish is for your support and blessings; we want to win,” Buhari told Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar III at his palace, according to a statement signed by the President’s spokesperson, Garba Shehu, late Thursday. The statement is titled ‘President Buhari, Tinubu to Sultan: we want to win these elections.’ Buhari who was at the palace to officially present Tinubu to the monarch said the 20-year relationship between them emboldened him to vouch for the APC flag bearer. According to him, Tinubu’s years as governor of Lagos State, a former federal capital territory turn commercial capital, remains his greatest selling point to Nigerians. “He narrated the qualities of the candidates, including their common belief and commitment to the unity and progress of every section of the country. “He said he had associated with Asiwaju for more than 20 years and did not have any reservations in supporting him as the candidate of the APC. “The President said Tinubu’s greatest strength was in his effective governance of Lagos, the country’s former Capital, a business hub and home to diverse individuals from all over Nigeria for two terms; his commitment to democracy; as well as his role at the center as a Senator,” the statement read. Therefore, Buhari urged Nigerians to trust Tinubu with power to succeed him because the APC candidate, supported by Kashim Shettima, the running mate would build on the successes of his regime. Tinubu, who spoke earlier, said, “I have come to be presented to you as candidate. The President and Commander-in-Chief, Muhammadu Buhari, is here in person to do that. I want to win the election. Is there a way you will decline the request of the President?” In answering, the monarch declared that being an apolitical father of all and custodian of culture, he would continue to receive everyone that sought the blessing of the throne, telling Buhari that many had come before him for the same purpose while many more would still come. “We will continue to pray for our nation. We cannot be tired of praying and will continue to advocate for peaceful and free elections in our fatherland,” the Sultan said. He assured the President that the Caliphate was behind him as he sought to ensure free and fair elections. The Sultan also noted that the President’s commitment to be present at the next signing of the Peace Accord by the political parties underscored his regime’s desire to bequeath to the nation a credible electoral process. After the palace meeting, the delegation proceeded to the Giginya Memorial Stadium, Sokoto, for the campaign rally. There, Buhari asked supporters to work towards the success of the party in the forthcoming elections across the state and at all levels. He noted that Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima, understood Nigeria’s challenges, having been in politics as two-time governors in their respective states and would proffer solutions to the challenges facing Nigeria. Also present at the rally were the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; former Governor Aliyu Wamakko, as well as other party stalwarts.