…advises political parties to reflect SDGS in their manifestos The United Nations Resident and Humanitarians Coordinator, Matthias Schmale has advised political parties to reflect the Sustainable Development Goals in their manifestoes, noting that Nigeria lacks behind in the implementation of the SDGs. Schmale gave the advice during a roundtable event with leaders of political parties to discuss the future of the SDGs in Nigeria on Thursday. He said much needs to be done in accelerating the little progress made in achieving SDGs goals in Nigeria. “Unfortunately, Nigeria is far behind in achieving the SDGs goals. We are hoping that what we have signed will accelerate more achievements. However, much more needs to be done. Progress needs to be accelerated. We have agreed in the UN a number of transforming initiatives that will bring about change and build on these achievements. “The round table discussion is to know what the parties’ priorities are against the SDGs agenda and what challenges that you have identified that Nigeria needs to overcome to achieve the SDGs agenda.” Only seven out of 18 political parties were represented; Peoples Democratic Party; African Action Congress; Young Progressives Party; Social Democratic Party; African Democratic Congress; People’s Redemption Party; Boot Party; and National Rescue Movement. The various parties’ representatives claimed that there are many of their plans that reflect SDGs goals. The Head of Department, Foreign Chapter, PDP, Agape Kramen noted that the party is ready to tackle poverty, poor education, and increase youths involved in politics as SDG 1 (no poverty); SDG 4 (quality education) and SDG 5 (gender equality). Kramen said “Nigeria is a developing country and we have gone through system changes which really have not been successful. However, PDP is ready to follow in every SDG goal. PDP will put everybody in school. There will be Primary Health Centres and educational centres in different local government areas. The women will be empowered by helping them develop the right sense of value.” The National Secretary, YPP, Vidiyeno Bamaiyi stated his party is ready to work on SDG 13 (climate action). Bamaiyi noted “We are one of the political parties that have covered robustly on climate change issues and we have taken it seriously. The last few climate change conferences, we were the only political party that sent representatives. Be assured that when YPP takes over the government, climate change will be a matter that will always be prioritised.” Speaking after the parties about the SDGs in their manifestos, the UN Resident Coordinator, said “The roundtable discussion was a rich dialogue that is not just useful to the UN but also useful to political parties for the betterment of the country. “Some of you spoke about reflecting the SDGs in your manifestoes. That is what we have found best rather than having separate plans for the SDGs. The goal needs to be owned and reflecting it in your manifestos works best not just in Nigeria but around the globe. “All of you spoke about leaving no one behind, which is about inclusiveness. It means that all Nigerians will benefit from the manifestos. “I am happy that all the political parties said they will revitalise the economy which will pull a lot of Nigerians out of poverty.” He advised political parties to focus more on the spending aspect of finance in order to revitalise the economy. Schmale noted “However, Nigeria is a wealthy country that needs a better way of generating resources for state purposes and there is a need to look at the spending of this wealth and how it can earn more impact.”