The National Youth Service Corps has deployed over 200,000 corps members as adhoc staff to partake in the general elections scheduled for Saturday, its Director-General,  Brigadier General Yushau Dogara Ahmed, said on Wednesday. He said those to participate in the elections have already been trained by INEC officials both in and outside orientation camps, warning that they must not accept food from anybody. “What I want to warn corps members about is that they should be careful in whatever environment they find themselves in. They should not accept any gift from any politician. “They must not accept any food from anybody. As they go, they should carry at least their service support. Any form of gratification or gifts, we don’t expect any corps member to accept”, Ahmed. The NYSC DG stated these in Abuja while speaking with journalists on the the preparedness of the organisation for the forthcoming general elections. He said, “We have deployed over 200,000 corps members. Those who are participating in this election have already been trained. Some of them are trained outside the camps. Those who just passed out were trained by INEC officials in the camp. Proper training has been given to them, guidelines were given to them. They have been well informed and they are ready to give their best.” According to him, the NYSC has put in place measures to ensure the security of corps members during and after the elections. Ahmed said part of the efforts was meeting with heads of security agencies to ensure that they are secured. He said, “What is fundamental for me to also mention is the security of these corps members. Since I took over, I have met with the IG of Police and the DSS. I have met with the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, I have equally  met with INEC and every hand is on deck to ensure that the Corps members are secured “We were assured by INEC that they will carry these corps members to their respective places of assignment and bring them back safely from wherever they are picking them from.” The DG warned corps members against collection of any form of gratification from politicians during the election. “On the welfare of these corps members, INEC has promised to provide them with sleeping kits and whatever they need for the elections.”