The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has been commended by the people of Ayakoro community in the Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State for appointing their son, Samuel Ogbuku, as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission. The paramount ruler of Ayakoro, Righteous Inegbaha, gave the commendation while speaking during the 65th edition of the annual celebration to commemorate the community’s relocation from their old settlement to their present location, on Saturday. He also expressed appreciation to the Federal Government, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, and Senate Committee on Niger Delta Affairs for the thorough process that led to emergence of Ogbuku as the NDDC boss. Inegbaha, while recalling the historic movement, said, “Our singular decision taken in 1958 to relocate from the natural disaster-prone settlement has been a huge blessing to us.” He paid glowing tribute to the first paramount ruler of Ayakoro, Nathan Ogbuku-Orioso, for his vision, wisdom and demonstration of superior sense of purpose concerning the relocation. According to him, that vision has placed the community in a better, clean and safe environment for the people, adding that the memories of all those that participated in the decision would be continually honoured. Also speaking, the chairman of the anniversary celebration and Founder/Chief Executive Officer of Azikel Group, Godbless Eruani, thanked God for the grace and wisdom bestowed upon the people of Ayakoro who took the historic decision that had brought goodwill and favour to the community. Eruani, while pledging to continue to support the community, noted that the relocation was worth celebrating as “it signifies the end and beginning of a new community.” In his remarks, the Managing Director of the NDDC, Samuel Ogbuku, who is also the deputy paramount ruler of Ayakoro community, lauded Buhari for his determination to develop the Niger Delta. He assured the people of government’s continued support in infrastructural development as he made progress in his new role as the managing director of the commission. Ogbuku also expressed gratitude to the commission’s Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Major General Charles Airhiavbere (retd), and the Executive Director, Projects, Charles Ogunmola, for accompanying him to celebrate his community’s epochal event.