Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has urged the state police command to parade eight suspected hoodlums arrested at the venue of the last Thursday presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress held in Osogbo. The PDP, in a statement by its state Caretaker Chairman, Dr Akindele Adekunle, in Osogbo on Sunday, listed names and towns of those allegedly arrested and labelled them members of the APC. The statement read in part, “We learnt from credible sources that the police arrested eight armed thugs of the APC at the Friday rally. We gathered too that the thugs have confessed that they belong to APC and were brought to the venue by APC chieftains. “Our intelligence also revealed that since the arrest of the hoodlums, top APC leaders have been mounting pressure on the police to quietly release them. While the police command is reportedly planning to arraign the bandits on Monday, APC leaders are alleged to be pulling strings to get their agents of deaths off the hook.” Reacting, Osun APC spokesperson, Mr Kola Olabisi, dismissed the allegation, describing it as a make-believe story fabricated by the PDP leadership. Olabisi, who urged the public to discard the allegation, said the statement was wickedly woven by the PDP leadership to divert attention from the effect of the governorship election petition tribunal that sacked its candidate. He said, “The unfounded allegation by the PDP doesn’t add up as discerning minds would want to ask what the duty of the supposed APC thugs would be at an APC event. Was it to attack fellow APC members? “The allegation lacks ingredients of truth and should be consigned to the dustbin of a conjectured statement wickedly woven by the PDP leadership to divert attention from the effect of the governorship election petition tribunal that sacked their candidate, the embattled Senator Ademola Adeleke, as the state governor penultimate week.” The spokesperson of the state command, Yemisi Opalola, while responding to inquiries by our correspondent, confirmed the arrest of some armed men at the venue of the Osun APC presidential rally last Thursday. “We made an arrest at the event and after investigation, we will charge them to court,” she said.