The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, has promised the people of Rivers State to restructure the Presidential Amnesty Programme if given elected in the February 25 election. Atiku also promised that, as part of his recovery agenda for Nigeria, Rivers women would benefit from a special entrepreneurial funding in addition to being considered for appointments to various offices. The presidential candidate of the PDP made these promises at the Rivers State stakeholders’ meeting held on Sunday in Abuja. The former vice president had cancelled a Rivers State campaign rally scheduled to have held on February 11, 2023, citing security reasons. Earlier, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, had revoked approval for the presidential campaign to use the state’s stadium for its rally and later made a U-turn approving the venue, however, the presidential campaign council in the state rejected the offer. Atiku stated during the stakeholders’ meeting, “Among other initiatives, the Presidential Amnesty Programme will be revamped and restructured to become an enduring platform for unleashing the boundless creative energies and potentials of our youth in Rivers State. “Our recovery agenda for Nigeria has a front row seat for Rivers women who are brilliant, talented and hardworking. The women of Rivers State will benefit from our special entrepreneurial funding targeted at women in addition to being considered for appointments to various offices.” The ex-VP, who acknowledged the circumstances and turn of events that had led them to the unique style of a campaign rally although did not wish for that, stressed that it became expedient to think and act innovatively to protect the lives of the “people from the mindless violence and bloodshed instigated by the very persons who have the primary responsibility for their security and wellbeing.” He said, “Our campaign and indeed the PDP subscribe fully to the position that no political ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian.” The PDP flag bearer noted that as a good corporate citizen of Rivers State, who is connected with several family in the state over the years, he remained confident of the support of Rivers people for the PDP and his presidency adding that they were bound by destiny to be critical stakeholders and beneficiaries of the Atiku-Okowa presidency in multiple ways. “Let me, therefore, reassure Rivers people that the state will regain its preeminent position in the governance and politics of Nigeria,” he said.