The Nigerian Labour Congress on Saturday described the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai as a “right-winged extremist” who doesn’t believe in rules. The labour union also condemned what it described as “irresponsible and dangerous” the comments of the governor regarding the National Industrial Court of Nigeria. In a statement signed by its outgoing National President, Ayuba Wabba, the NLC said, “The disparaging comments by the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai, about the judiciary, in particular, the National Industrial Court of Nigeria on a national TV platform which was aired recently are irresponsible, unbecoming, and dangerous because they are capable of undermining our public institutions. “They also represent the height of flippant commentary. The allegations against the National Industrial Court are spurious, mischievous, malicious and prejudicial and reveal the extent of Nasir El-Rufai’s bigotry, and ignorance in simple judicial matters as the NICN could not have stopped him from pursuing the criminal aspect or content of his complaint. “His comments present him as a governor who neither believes in rules nor systems. Right-wing extremism which El-Rufai represents is dangerous to our democracy because it does not believe in rules or laws other than its own rules and laws and seeks to destroy that which it cannot control.” Wabba further stated that the public service rules were meant to be respected in all circumstances by both government and employees. “Labour standards and rules are also meant to be respected by all, including El-Rufai. Hiring and firing workers like slaves have no place in a democratic system guided by the rule of law.” El-Rufai during an interview on Channels Television last Wednesday described Nigeria’s judicial system as a “pathetic system that sides more with crooks than the innocent”. He noted that the government of Kaduna State had not been able to convict people that stole state funds because courts were making it difficult to convict people. He added that one of the biggest mistakes Nigeria made was setting up the National Industrial Court. He also cited instances where the court freed people accused of corruption.