The Inter-Party Advisory Council has given the Independent National Electoral Commission in Cross River State a 24-hour ultimatum to allow political parties to inspect the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System machines. The umbrella group of 18 registered political parties in the state warned that elections would not hold in the state if they were not allowed to inspect the BVAS machines. This was as it called for the redeployment of the Commissioner of Police in the state, Sule Balarabe, and the DCP for Operations, Frank Idu, ahead of the elections. IPAC gave the ultimatum on Monday in a statement read at a news conference by the state chairman, Anthony Bissong, as part of its demands for a credible election. He said, “We give the Independent National Electoral Commission and the Resident Electoral Commissioner, 24 hours to allow political parties to inspect the BVAS in addition to taking a full record of the IMEI number of the 3,281 BVAS machines to reignite and renew our confidence in the commission. “We call on the National Chairman of INEC to authorise a thorough investigation of the activities of the commission in Cross River State.” On the call for a change of the Commissioner of Police, Bissong said, “We want the next CP, upon resumption of duty, to effect a comprehensive reshuffling of Divisional Police Officers, across the state and especially in Cross River North, which has become a major flashpoint of political violence in the state.” But reacting, the CP, Balarabe, said, “I have no ill intention towards anyone in Cross River. I will remain impartial in the discharge of my duties. I will maintain professionalism in all my activities.” IPAC also urged the 18 political parties in the state to continue to intensify their campaigns, to be civil in their conduct, and to demonstrate high levels of sportsmanship at the end of the election. Rescuing Abia my mission, APC gov candidate says Sunday Nwakanma, Umuahia The All Progressive Congress governorship candidate in Abia State, Chief Ikechi Emenike, has regretted the dilapidated condition of the state, stating that his mission as governor is to rescue and develop the state. Emenike spoke in his Umukabia Ohuhu in Umuahia North LGA on Sunday evening after unveiling his manifesto. He said, “My mission derives from my experience of many years. My mission for Abia is to lead the way to turning it into a world-class state after 24 years of decay. “We will do it, and we are capable. We have seen the difference and can make the change. All is not well with Abia. The air, the tree, the environment, everything in the state is complaining.” Fielding questions from newsmen, Emenike added, “We need a government that will create jobs for Abia children with a robust budget of about N5bn; the state’s current N1.9bn will keep the state in poverty. There will be the opportunity to do something different.”