Former Senate President, Pius Anyim, has denied any association with the G5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party, adding that he remains a committed member of the PDP. The G5, also known as the Integrity Group, comprises the governors of Rivers State and the leader of the group, Nyesom Wike; Benue, Samuel Orton; Abia, Okezie Ikpeazu; Enugu, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; and Oyo, Seyi Makinde. The aggrieved governors had called for the resignation of the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, over the alleged lopsidedness in the party’s hierarchy. But Ayim, in a statement he signed and made available to journalists in Abuja on Friday night while reacting to a news report (not Sunday PUNCH), said, “I want to state upfront that at no time was I part of the G5 governors and or leaders. “I am sufficiently knowledgeable of the events leading to and after the PDP presidential primary and have my convictions about why I should not, in any way, be part of the G5 governors and leaders. “I want to state very clearly that after the presidential primary, I chose to remain in PDP as a leader and responsible citizen of Nigeria who should indeed place Nigeria over and above my interest. I must confess that this decision was reinforced by my experience working with (former) President Goodluck Jonathan. The former presidential aspirant, who said he had remained loyal to the party since the return of democracy in 1999, however, commended the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, who he described as a factor in the political equation of the 2023 presidential election. Ayim added, “On the issue of Peter Obi, Labour Party presidential candidate, I am to say that I was in the PDP presidential primary, Peter Obi and others and at some point, all of us from the South-East met and resolved to work together, to ensure the zoning of the presidential position to the South-East and that whoever among us that got the ticket should be supported by the others. “When the zoning failed, Peter Obi pulled out and joined the Labour Party, while I continued to the end. To the credit of Obi, today he has become a factor in the political equation of the 2023 presidential election. I must state here and always that I am proud of His Excellency, Peter Obi, for doing what I could not do. “At this juncture, let me state, and I know many Nigerians believe so, that whosoever God had destined to be the next president of Nigeria is already settled and no man can change that.”