The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria celebrated passengers at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja; Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, and the General Aviation Terminals, Lagos; Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; and Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu to mark the 2023 Valentines Day celebration. The exercise held at both International and Domestic Terminals of the NAIA was led by the Acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs, FAAN Faithful Hope-Ivbaze and staff in the Corporate Affairs Department. A statement by the management of FAAN noted that the event was part of the Agency’s strategy to show appreciation to passengers, adding that it was committed to ensuring that air travellers were given the utmost respect and comfort. According to the statement, at random, staff and workers at the airports were approached, given gifts, flowers and photo opportunities. Speaking on the idea of celebrating customers and airport facilities users, Mrs Hope-Ivbaze said, “On Valentine’s day, love is celebrated all over the world and FAAN isn’t left out of the celebrations. We want to use the valentine’s celebrations to share love to our passengers and facilities users to let them know that we care and have their interest at heart.” “We present these beautiful flowers and a token gift to our passengers and some clients,” she added. She also used the moment to assure passengers of seamless facilitations at the FAAN-managed airports across the country. Some of the passengers who received the gift items were excited about the gesture. Most of them say was a pleasant surprise and they haven’t experienced such before. A passenger and a military officer from Chad, Major Mohammed, said he’s excited about the kind gesture by FAAN. Also, Gladys from Chad still said “This is a good surprise and Nigeria is a good country. “You have a big and beautiful airport. This warm welcome and flowers on Valentine’s day is the first surprise I received” she stated. Miss Olamide who was heading to Baghdad was just as excited. “This is my first time experiencing this at the airport. I’m travelling to Baghdad and I really love the flower” she said. Also, another passenger, Dr Shane said, “FAAN just impressed me. For the first time, I experienced this and this is very special.” Another passenger, Mr Idris said it was a “very nice experience. I’m a frequent traveller so I know what this means. Connecting to Passengers is great.” “We understand the trouble FAAN goes through on a daily basis to satisfy customers in spite the limitations. “Celebrating Valentine’s with customers that use the services is something that brings joy to me. It shows that you care for the customers” he stated further. For Chinechere, FAAN should “keep working hard and keep loving each other,” she said. Mr Omodiame Raymond said, “I haven’t travelled on Valentine’s day and experienced this. This is my first time. FAAN is introducing new things to the travelling public and I wish them well.”