The crisis rocking the Taraba State chapter of the All Progressive Congress which led to the nullification of the governorship primary of the party by the Supreme Court took another dimension last night as 38 out of the total members of the State Executive Committee passed a vote of no confidence in the Chairman, Ibrahim El-Suldi, and allegedly removed him from office. In a release signed by the aggrieved 38 members of the Executive Committee, they said Article 21(d)(vi) of the APC Constitution gave them the power to remove the Chairman. They said, “Our grounds and justification for passing a vote of no confidence in El-Suldi, and to consequently remove him from office as Taraba State APC Chairman relates to his failure to discharge his responsibilities, as well as his neglect and dereliction of duty and misconduct. “The chairman neglected his duties and lawful directives of the party. Contrary to the directives of the National Secretariat that the indirect mode of primary election should be adopted, the state chairman communicated to the Independent National Electoral Commission that the party chose direct mode of primary election. “This has caused issues within the party, resulting in numerous litigations. This contravenes Article 21 (a)(iii) of the APC Constitution. El-Suldi has consistently absented from his office in the state, relocated and set up permanent base in Abuja, where he is abdicating his office by his failure, refusal, or neglect to discharge the duties and functions of his office. “El-Sudi has failed, refused or neglected to call for SEC meetings without any justification. Officials of the party have been sidelined.” The excos said at this critical election period, when the party ought to be strategising and planning on how to win the forthcoming elections, the importance of SEC meetings cannot be overemphasised, but “El-Sudi by his conduct has undermined our collective efforts towards winning the forthcoming elections.” Citing the factionalisation of the party and the above alleged infractions, the SEC in the statement said they therefore invoked the powers conferred on them by Article 21(d)(vi) of the APC Constitution and had removed El-Sudi from office as the APC Chairman, Taraba State. Reacting to the development, the Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Aaron Artimas, said the purported removal was done by some desperate members of the party who felt that they would not make any head way in the rescheduled governorship primary slated for February 10. “I am a member of the State Executive Committee, but I didn’t sign the purported removal. What they did was to bring in some members of the SEC loyal to David Kente to carry out the shameful act,” he said.