The presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Dumebi Kachikwu, expressed his dissatisfaction on Monday, as the party endorsed the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, and his running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, for the presidency, about five days before the election. The decision did not go down well with Kachikwu, who described the actors as criminals. “I have long warned about the criminals in the ADC who sold the party to the bigger parties. They have divided themselves into three groups and collected money from the All Progressives Congress, Peoples Democratic Party, and Labour Party. One party, three endorsements—that is shameful!” Kachikwu said. The endorsement came on the heels of a grand coalition for the Obi/Datti Presidency. Among those who attended the event were ADC factional Chairman, Chief Ralph Nwosu; Chairman of its Board of Trustees, Dr Mani Ibrahim; and Chairman of The Big Tent, the leadership group of the Labour Party, Prof Pat Utomi. The star alliance partners were Nigeria Mothers for Good Governance, Fulani United, Nigeria Artisans, League of Imams, Nigeria Traders, Yoruba United, Mega Political Coalition, Kanuris United, Almagamated Coalitions, CEG Groups, and Nigeria Legions United. Ibrahim said the Obi-Datti Movement was a worthy cause and promised to ensure victory for the movement. He said, “Today, we come together as a family and as a formidable third force to take a stand in solidarity, moving forward for the viable presidential candidate the entire nation is clamouring for. “After our due diligence and critical assessment of the 17 presidential candidates and what they have to offer Nigerians, and after consulting our Grand Patron and former President, General Olusegun Obasanjo, we decided as a party that the Obi-Datti movement is a worthy cause to endorse. Today, we form this Star Alliance for one purpose only: to ensure a loud victory.” The event followed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the LP and the ADC. Speaking shortly after signing the MoU, the ADC factional Chairman, Nwosu said the partnership was only collaboration and not merger with the Labour Party.