The camp of the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, has disowned a viral video clip suggesting that he was planning to marry a new wife. The video went viral on Saturday alleging that the presidential flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was planning to take a second wife. The 45 seconds viral clip, which was ostensibly a digital invitation to the Nikah of the couple trended on social media including the WhatsApp platform. In Islam, Nikah is a contract where both the groom and bride are to consent to the marriage of their own free will. In the video, the announcer, a female voice over, claimed Tinubu was planning to marry a young bride resident in Katsina, Khadija Abubakar Bawa Wagini. She claimed “The solemnization of the Nikah would take place on February 18, 2023 at Katsina Central Mosque. Bride representative, Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari; groom representative, Kano State Governor, Senator Abdullahi Ganduje; Chief Host, Dahiru Mangal (a billionaire businessman and ally of the APC). “This is an invitation card for those who did not receive it. God has given power to come.” Reacting to the claim, the Chief Spokesman of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Festus Keyamo, labeled it as fabrication from the camp of the opposition. Keyamo believed that it was obviously targeted at causing bad blood in and reducing the Christian votes that Tinubu’s wife, Senator Oluremi, is bringing in. He said, “It is obviously one of those infantile propaganda from the opposition. They are just desperately targeting the Christian votes that his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, is bringing to the ticket and they know she is a pastor. This is why they are bringing up the propaganda of Asiwaju marrying a Muslim wife from Katsina who would now be the First Lady. “I won’t be surprised if this is from the PDP. That party has gone to an all-time low. You can see that it is not a serious party again. The PDP is a shadow of its old self.” The Director of Media and Publicity for the PCC, Bayo Onanuga, also kicked against it. “You should know this is not true. I don’t know the people who crafted and put it together,” he said. His position was also re-echoed by the Deputy spokesperson for the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council, Hannatu Musawa, who frowned at the report. According to her, she would have been the first to know of such development being an indigene and a resident in Katsina State. “No, it is not true. Haba! That is a big lie,” she stated.