The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday, said his regime’s electoral, pension, tax and monetary policy reforms had received high commendations from African policy experts. This was as he called on African Union member states to imbibe the culture of peer review and peer-to-peer learning for proactive and strong leadership on the continent. According to a statement signed by the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari spoke at the launch of the Second Country Review Report and the National Programme of Action of Nigeria. The statement is entitled, ‘President Buhari launches 2nd country review report, says peer review good for strong leadership in Africa.’ Nigeria’s annual peer review mechanism National Programme of Action is the result of the recommendations made in the January 2021 Country Self-Assessment Report and the February 2022 Country Review Report. The NPoA seeks to improve on the country’s security, economy, governance and to fight corruption. Buhari explained that his commitment to the Second Review of Nigeria was borne out of his ‘‘undiluted resolve to entrench democracy and quality leadership in all aspects of governance, and further ensure that Nigeria does not lag behind other nations.” Describing the document as important to Nigeria, he directed Ministries, Departments and Agencies to implement the report. He noted that the Report would strengthen the implementation of the African Union Agenda 2063, the strategic framework for the socio-economic transformation of the continent over the next 50 years. ‘‘It comes with a strong mandate on New Partnership for Africa’s Development and African Peer Review Mechanism, especially now that the continent is gearing towards the implementation of the Second Ten Year Development Plan to consolidate and seek the acceleration of better society,’’ said the President. He also pledged that Nigeria would continue to support Africa’s renewal and rebirth in line with the collective commitment to the principles and guidelines of the APRM to consolidate Africa’s path to healthy democracy, sustainable growth and development. ‘‘As a Government, we are proud of the steady progress being made in the country as stated by the Report and will continue to support the APRM Process and to ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation of the Report implementation.” Buhari noted the pragmatic role of the Panel of Eminent Persons of the African Peer Review Mechanism, led by Dr. Abdoulie Janneh, who doubles as the Nigerian lead panelist and the entire team members who in one way or another lent their helping hands for the successful conduct. ‘‘I am very much aware of the five pillars of APRM: Democracy and Political Governance, Economic Governance, Socio-Economic Governance, Corporate Governance and Cross-Cutting Issues which are the nucleus of good governance and upon which the Second Review was conducted. ‘‘This process has further strengthened the values and gains of our democracy so far, while reporting on the gaps of which most of this administration’s reforms and policies including the Executive Orders signed into law are poised to address. ‘‘I am aware of the high commendations of Nigerian best practices worthy of emulation such as: Electoral Reform; Pension Reform; Tax Law Reform; Digitalisation of Performance Management System; Judiciary Reform; Institutionalization of corporate governance; Monetary policy Reform and Fight Against Corruption,” Buhari said. National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, AUDA-NEPAD/APRM Nigeria, Gloria Akobundu, said the launch of the report would pave the way for experience sharing, reinforcement of successful best practices in promoting good governance and sustainable development at the national, regional and continental level.