With a week to the presidential election, the Allied Peoples Movement on Friday collapsed its entire structures in support of the presidential candidate of the
Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. The national chairman of APM, Yusuf Dantalle, disclosed this at a press conference which was held on Thursday night in Abuja. According to him, the party took the decision after its National Executive Committee meeting on crucial national issues, particularly the upcoming presidential election. The adoption of Atiku means the APM would not be supporting the aspiration of its presidential candidate, Princess Chichi Ojei. Ojei, a prominent Delta state born politician is the only female presidential candidate contesting the February 25 poll. Dantalle said the party took the decision after evaluating the democratic credentials of Atiku and his running mate, Okowa and considered it appropriate in national interest to adopt them for president and vice president in the forthcoming election. While describing the former vice president as the best and the only presidential candidate that can rescue Nigeria, he said the country needed a competent, experienced, visionary, resourceful and dynamic leader to resolve its multifarious challenges and chart a new course for the nation in next four years. Dantalle said, “The APM has confidence in the leadership of Atiku-Okowa and will collapse its structures nationwide to campaign for their presidential ticket. “The party will however, contest other elective positions including Senate, House of Representatives, Governorship and State House of Assembly seats. “APM presented credible candidates for these positions and sure of victory in Governorship and Legislative seats. “National interest supersedes partisan politics. We must join hands to rebuild our beloved nation and make Nigeria great again. “The party urges Nigerians to come out en masse and vote for PDP’s presidential candidate and his running mate, Atiku and Okowa. The umbrella symbol of the party is big enough to accommodate fellow compatriots and turnaround the destiny of the nation.”