Senators Ishaku Abbo andbBinos Yaroe, representing Adamawa Northern and Southern Senatorial districts respectively in the national assembly,  have won re-election for a second term to the Senate from results released by the Independent National Electoral Commission, for Saturday Presidential and National Assembly elections conducted in Adamawa State. Reverend Binos Yaroe of Yaroe of the People’s Democratic Party, according to results released by INEC polled 146, 407 votes to defeat Engineer Ismaila Numan of the All Progressive Congress, APC who scored 94, 828. The results also showed the ADC polled 2,414 while the LP, NNPP, PRP, SDP respectively polled 9,444; 2,592; 989; 1,667 . Senator Abbo, who shot to national limelight over his sex toy assault incidence, fought a tough battle, to emerge winner against his closest challenger Reverend Yohanna Amos, the candidate of PDP. According to reports Senator Ishaku Abbo popularly known as (SIA) polled,  71,927 votes while Amos scored, 61,895 votes. There were wild jubilation in Mubi following the announcement of Abbo as winner of senatorial contest by his supporters, who saw the contest as that of David against Goliath. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, is believed to have fielded the candidate of his party, and backed him tremendously to defeat Senator Abbo, who left the PDP for the APC following a rift in their relationship, which many analyst believed had been fueled by intra-party power tussle following the electoral victory of duo in 2019. The unfortunate estrangement between both men, took, a sharp twist shortly after, Abbo had described Fintiri as a “small man holding a big office” when the later it was learnt had refused Abbo’s wish to have some of his loyalist giving sensitive appointment in the new administration following the defeat of Governor Jibrilla Bindow of the APC in 2019. Results of the outcome of the senatorial contest for Adamawa Central Senatorial zone is still being expected as at the time of filing this report. Results so far released for five councils namely Yola South, Yola North, Girei, Fufore and Song showed Senator Abdulaaziz Nyako, son of former Governor Murtala Nyako trailing the Speaker, of the Adamawa State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Aminu Iya-Abbas by margin of 30,000 votes. Abbas is projected to win the votes from the two outstanding council areas of Gombi and Hong. Abbas hails from Uba in Hong, results so far released for the presidency and Federal house of Representatives have seen the PDP recording tremendous success in both councils. Sen. Nyako, who’s seeking re-election afresh, to represent Adamawa Central in the Senate, had served as senator between 2015 and 2019 and played a crucial role in the passage of the North East Development Commission.