Egbin Power Plc, Sahara Foundation, a subsidiary of Sahara Group partnered to commission the newly revamped Ijede police station in Ijede community, Ikorodu, Lagos. A statement said the project was in line Egbin Power’s commitment to enhance infrastructure development, socio-economic growth, and effective policing to promote safety and security in the company’s host communities. Speaking at the commissioning, the Chief Executive Officer, Egbin Power Plc, Mokhtar Bounour, said the company, through Sahara Foundation, had further demonstrated its commitment to sustainability by making impact in the lives of people and adding value to communities where the organisation operates. He said, “This initiative is part of our strategy at Egbin Power Plc to be closer to the communities where we operate. The Police are a vital part of our stakeholders in the society and we appreciate the effort and resources they apply to deliver adequate security to protect lives and property. “We also know they are doing their best to keep people and property safe in our communities. So, through projects of this nature, we will continue to demonstrate our encouragement and support for them in discharging their duties and to make a difference.” According to the statement, the Director, Sustainability and Governance, Sahara Group, Ejiro Gray, thanked the Nigerian Police Force for support and collaboration during the project, noting that the project reinforced Sahara Foundation’s commitment to improving lives and promoting sustainable societies. Gray said, “What we do at Sahara Foundation is to ensure that through initiatives like this, we are transforming and impacting lives and livelihood of people in our host communities. And we cannot talk about making impact without providing adequate security of lives and property which is a core component of the wellbeing of every society and communities. This is one of the ways we are contributing our quota to promoting access to energy, sustainable environment by transforming lives and livelihood at Sahara Foundation, Sahara Group and by extension Egbin Power Plc.”