Some bank customers in Bayelsa State, on Wednesday, besieged the Yenagoa branch office of the Central Bank of Nigeria to deposit their old naira notes as requested by the CBN as part of measures to manage the currency redesign crisis. Our correspondent, who visited the CBN office along Ox-Bow Lake Road, observed that a handwritten notice indicating just a website, httpps://crs.cbn.gov.ng, was pasted on the inside wall of the gate. The customers were seen copying and snapping the website with their phones in order for them to be able to commence the process of depositing their old naira notes with the apex bank. A customer, who gave her name simply as Emmanuella, described the process in an interview as “very difficult”, saying that she did not like the frustrating situation. She said, “The process is very difficult. I don’t know what to say; everybody in Nigeria is frustrated and they don’t know what to do. I actually don’t like the situation but we have to do it (go online).” Another customer, who did not want his name mentioned in print, said he was comfortable with the process despite the biting hardship, saying however that the process should be made flexible. Narrating his experience at the CBN gate, he said, “One CBN officer who addressed us said some of the commercial banks are receiving old naira notes and he mentioned Zenith Bank and Sterling Bank. “They (the bank officer) also told us that if you know anybody that is banking with those banks, you can collaborate with them, give them your money to deposit. But some people went to these banks only to return and said that the banks were rejecting old naira notes. “CBN told us they have initiated a website where we will fill a form online and bring your money to deposit, then submit your account details. To some extent, I am okay with the process but the situation is biting, it should be a little bit soft so that people can have access to their money in the bank.” Efforts to speak with CBN officials, including the branch manager, Joseph Omayuku, proved abortive as they were said to be holding a crucial meeting