The Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited has said it plans to reduce fuel scarcity and increase dependence on natural gas through the rehabilitation of three refineries. The company’s Executive Vice President, Danladi Inuwa, disclosed this on Wednesday during a sensitisation programme with The Natives, a civil society organisation in Abuja. He also revealed that the Port-Harcourt refinery will start operations by the second quarter of 2023 adding that the Warri and Kaduna stations have been contracted for quick rehabilitation. The programme titled, “Understanding our national oil company post-Petroleum Industry Act” was aimed at enlightening the public and moving citizens’ involvement from protests to participation in the decision-making process of the profit-oriented company. The president of the group, Olalekan Edwards, in his address, voiced concerns about citizen participation in influencing key project decisions in host communities, noting that the narrative needed to change from protests to participation in key decisions. He said, “The accurate picture here is we want to change the narrative from protest to participation. “We most times address them at the aftereffect of misapplication of funds or projects that are not in developmental the communities, so we have decided to rise up. If you go to different host communities, you will hear issues that boil down to their development “We are placing a demand, we want to begin to participate in our affairs rather than just protest”, he argued. Responding, the Vice president explained that by becoming a limited liability company, the company has been able to invest in infrastructure and initiate various corporate responsibility initiatives to spur development while ensuring energy security. He said, “We have the mandate to ensure energy security for the nation. We are focusing on monetising our gas which is evident in some of the key projects like the AKK project. This is all done to ensure NNPC is fulfilling its mandate and spurring development. “We are working to revamp our refineries, for instance, the Port-Harcourt refinery will be functioning by the second quarter of 2023, the area five of the refinery will be functioning. Also, Warri and Kaduna refineries will have been signed on a quick rehabilitation to refine our petroleum product in the country. Yes, we have challenges in the country but they will be resolved very soon, he concluded.