The Senatorial candidate for Anambra Central Senatorial District on the platform of the Young Progressive Party, Dr Chinedu Umeadi, has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission for its conduct of the presidential and National Assembly elections. Umeadi, who spoke to journalists on Sunday, said INEC did a commendable job from what he saw and heard from his situation room, adding that he reserves further comment until after the announcement of the final results. The senatorial aspirant also praised the electorate for turning out en masse to vote for the candidates of their choice. According to him, the election was peaceful without any violence in the state. He said, “What I heard from my polling unit and what people told me from my situation room, INEC did a nice job. In some places, materials arrived early, and in some places, they arrived late “I learnt that INEC has extended the voting in some places election did not hold, which is good. Accreditation started around 1.30pm in some places, and the good thing is that accreditation was still ongoing. He said the electorates actually turned out en masse, and he was impressed by the enthusiasm shown by the people to choose their leaders. Umeadi further said that the turnout this time was better than the previous years and commended the voters. He canvassed electronic voting for future elections, noting that it would change the campaign strategies for politicians. He, however, said that the election was not a do-or-die affair, adding that if he loses, he will congratulate the winner. “Election is not a do-or-die affair. If I lose, I will congratulate the winner and move on. The conduct of the election has so far been commendable, but there is still a lot of room for improvement. It is high time we embraced electronic voting in this country. “With electronic voting, the issue of rigging will be curbed. In advanced countries, the electorate vote with their national identification number and there is no need to start thumbprinting. We should be looking to get to that level,” he added.