Stocks which are financial assets of a company’s capital are also known as equity shares of organisations. Stocks give owners (shareholders) a share or shares in a company. This means that any profit the company makes is shared and distributed in the form of dividends. Although, the stock market seems to be an unfamiliar terrain due to its complexity and lack of proper knowledge, experts advise on the need to follow specific path to achieve financial success. According to asset managers and stock brokers, investing in stocks is an important way to generate passive income and ensure sustainable wealth. The Founder of Cowry Asset Management Limited, Johnson Chukwu, says that a good reason to buy stocks is to earn passive income and build wealth, especially for young people. He says, “Anyone who has the ambition to become rich must save and invest. That’s the most important thing. Then you have to weigh your options when investing. If you are a young person, you can invest in stocks because the value of stocks increases and you get a dividend. Even if you are a little older, you can invest in stocks that pay a dividend. This will be a second source of income for you. Investing in stocks is investing in an asset that will not only give you regular returns but will also increase in value.” Chukwu noted that while buying stocks is an option for anyone who has an income and the ambition to earn passive income, grow their wealth, and exercise discipline in saving, it is advisable to seek a professional opinion before taking the plunge. He says, “One of the principles in investing is that if it’s not your area of expertise, get or work with someone who is. If you are not in a position to determine the value of stocks, seek the opinion of professionals such as agents or brokers from the beginning. Once you have acquired the necessary skills, you can decide to trade on your own.” The Managing director of Cordros Securities Ltd, Christian Orajekwe, highlights the reasons for individuals and companies to buy and invest in equities. He noted the regulatory advantages the equity market has developed over the years, as well as affordability. He says, “The stock market is now well regulated. Regulation has improved significantly, companies are paying dividends at the right time, and brokers are not compromising on client investments. Orajekwe cites easy access to information as another factor to consider when buying stocks because “clients now have access to information about what is happening with a company and what is driving stock prices at any given time. The market is much more digitised today, so people can watch live trading and make informed decisions. Unlike in the past, there used to be no access to technology that allowed access to real-time data. Now, companies and individuals have access to devices via phone or laptop.’ He explains that buying stocks is one way to fight inflation. According to him, “The stock market is cheap from a valuation perspective. Many stocks are currently trading below their historical levels. Also, equities are the only asset class currently in the market that offers a very good inflation-adjusted return. There are a number of stocks in the market, very good companies, that have the potential to provide returns that are above inflation.” Orajekwe argues that strong inflation hurts the value of money over time. He says, “If you want to get good value for your investment, you need to invest in an asset class that beats inflation.” Another good reason to invest in stocks, he says, is “the quality of companies in the market that consistently pay good dividends. From a cash flow perspective, you have the certainty of consistent cash flow, sometimes flowing twice a year as an interim dividend or as a one-time payment. Either in bank stocks or others. When the market is trading live, they can track stock prices, look at their portfolios and follow stock prices. That helps them decide whether to buy or sell. And there are many more markets, quality banks, consumer companies, so there are multiple opportunities for individuals.” Orajekwe further emphasises that buying stocks allows investors to diversify because of the large influx of strong companies with sustainable business models. He says, “A client can diversify their portfolio better than before when the market was largely saturated by banks and insurance companies, but now you can invest across sectors and get returns depending on their performance within an economic cycle.” However, he recommends getting advice from a professional in the early years of buying stocks “The most important thing is to get a professional on hand to help you invest,” he says. According to the Head, Research and Investment, FSL Securities Limited, Chiazor Victor, investing in stocks is increasingly becoming an important investment option for individuals and companies. Although they are higher risk compared to other investment options such as mutual funds, bonds, and treasury bills, “investment in stocks should be encouraged,” he says. Victor outlines the performance of the stock market over the past three years., “In 2020, it returned 50.03 per cent ; in 2021, 6.07 per cent ; and in 2022, 19.98 per cent, for an average return of 25.36 per cent, well above the rate of inflation over the period,” he says. He adds that, although investors are still anxious about the volatility in the stock market, “We believe that with proper advice and guidance from fund managers and stock brokers, they can get a decent return on their investments in the stock market.” Research Analyst at PanAfrican Capital Holdings Limited, Wole Adeyeye, adds that investing in equities helps individuals and businesses preserve their wealth. He reiterates that one of the benefits of investing in equities is the payment of dividends and/or bonuses. He says, “When the share price increases, the wealth of individuals or companies that invest in such shares also increases. Other benefits include emission rights, entitlements to income and assets of the company, and voting rights.” Adeyeye cautions, however, that it is advisable to invest in stocks that have sound fundamentals and good corporate governance, as investing in stocks involves risk.