The Peoples Democratic Party in Kaduna State has faulted the free food, free transport and medical services dangled before residents of the state by the state government as part of measures to cushion the effect of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s naira redesign policy. According to the state secretary of the party, Alhaji Ibrahim Wusono, such gesture by the government amounts to vote-buying ahead of the 2023 general election. The PUNCH reports that the state government had announced the provision of free transport services, free medical care for common illnesses like malaria and typhoid as well as necessities like food to mitigate the effect of the current cash crunch on the people of the state. The PDP scribe also said there was no rift in the party in the state, as according to him, all the party stalwarts were now united to unseat the APC government. He said, “They brought a plan by transporting people from Kaduna to Zaria metropolitan free of charge. I want to draw the attention of Kaduna citizens that it’s part of the deceit which has always been part of the APC government for the past seven years. “People should understand or remember that it’s the APC government that sacked more than 62,000 workers including teachers in the state. “It’s the APC government that demolished houses, market stalls and it is under the APC administration that people are not secure in Kaduna State; look at what is happening in Birnin-Gwari, Giwa, Chikun and Kajuru? The entire is not secured. What causes this? It’s because of the poor leadership of the APC government. “We are appealing to the people of Kaduna to resist the tactics that is being currently introduce by the APC government by distributing food items to them just because they have failed. “It’s a deception. They govern the state for more than sevens year, have they provided free transport to citizens of the state? They didn’t. It’s because of the election. It’s also vote-buying. “There is no crisis in PDP in the state. Is there crisis? Look when we conducted our rally yesterday, all the party top-notch were there; former Vice President Namadi Sambo was there; former governors Ahmed Makarfi, amongst others party stalwarts were there.”