The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, said on Wednesday that he will be the next president of Nigeria while soliciting the votes of the people of Rivers State. This is as Tinubu said he was not just looking for power, but that he wants power to be able to change the living conditions of citizens and make Nigeria a prosperous nation. Tinubu stated this at the APC presidential rally held at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital on Wednesday. Tinubu, who arrived the venue at about 4pm for an event slated for 10am, was accompanied by the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, former Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole, National Vice Chairman of the party, South-South, Chief Victor Giadom, Rivers State governorship candidate of the APC, Tonye Cole, among others. Although, former Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi was conspicuously missing at the event, his loyalist, including the APC Chairman in the state, Emeka Beke and others were in attendamce. While apologising to the party faithful and crowd of supporters, Tinubu said it was neither his intention nor the fault of theirs for coming far behind schedule, saying, “This politics in political.” He further said, “Here we are again in Nigeria and in Rivers State. It is not fish that we are looking for, it is not crayfish because it is also in Lagos. “What we are looking for is authority to change lives for prosperity. Power and mandate to give you the best of lives to take care of your inheritance. “To make sure that all of you, particularly the youths, that you are empowered to have the best skills in the world that can we can manufacture and export to other countries. “Things we can produce to make Nigeria proud and be a nation of prosperity, joy and happiness beyond one day.” He however said the desired and envisaged ‘prosperity’ in Nigeria would be elusive without a peaceful environment and factories, including functional sea ports to create employment. “Without our own factory, without better utilisation of our ports, without peace and stability, we cannot achieve those aims and dreams. We want you to take your lives seriously beyond politics,” Tinubu said. While responding to the cheering crowd, Tinubu expressed happiness at the warm reception and ovation, saying, “You want the President? I will be (president) by the grace of God, become your president by the power of votes. Make sure you have your PVC. Make sure your votes and your ballot is ready. “I know already that you are looking for president. You will vote for me as your president. God will bless you. I pray one day you will be president too, let’s work together, let’s build the nation, a nation of joy, a nation of unity. “A nation that is hard working; that is working together, not killing one another. Today I am here. I don’t want to leave you in doubt. I am running for President. When you make me the president I will love you more.” Speaking earlier, the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, said, “When you make promises, it is in the Bible, it is a burden. Promises must be kept. No excuses whatsoever. “The leadership of the PDP and preponderance of leaders in this part of the country wanted to have a southern president. “There are governors, there are ministers. You concluded you wanted President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor to be a Southerner. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is he a Southerner? Did the PDP keep its promise? We (APC) are honourable people. We honour our words.” Adamu added, “We have a full-blooded Southerner as our candidate and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is very much ready to succeed Buhari. So what the PDP fails to do and to give the South, we have given to the South. It is left for you now to keep your own side of the bargain. You need to vote for APC,” he said, even as he urged the people of the state to be ready with their Permanent Voter Cards.