The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party and Governor of Delta State, Ifeanyi Okowa, has said the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, will redirect Nigeria to the path of greatness when elected on February 25. According to him, the ship of state was fast sinking under the ruling All Progressives Congress as a result of bad governance. Okowa stated these while inaugurating the Bayelsa Health Insurance House at the state secretariat complex in Yenagoa, the state capital, on Thursday. He said, “But I know that with all of us working together as a people and as a nation, we can begin to turn things around and make our dream yet again about the Nigeria of our tomorrow, a Nigeria that we can boast and be proud of. “There is no doubt that the APC governance has tended to sink the ship of our nation. But I know that by the special grace of God, we will redirect the ship to float yet again and we will move together by the special grace and guidance of God to do the things that God has purposed for our people. God did not plan for Nigerians to suffer.” Meanwhile, the Director of Media and Publicity for Tinubu-Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, Bayo Onanuga, has described the recent gaffe made by the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, as a true reflection of what he has in mind. The former senate president had mistakenly screamed, “PDP has brought us shame and we will not retain them in power,” while he delivered a speech at a rally organised by the PDP in Kano State. Although Ayu quickly corrected himself during the live broadcast, the statement went viral and trended on several online sites and social media platforms. Onanuga said, “Ayu’s verdict on his own party should not be seen as a mere slip of the tongue. It was truly an articulation of the inner mind of the former academic and senate president, a self-admission of the egregious failures of the party when it was in charge of our country for 16 years. “Ayu’s viral statement that ‘PDP has brought us shame and we will not retain them in power,’ concurs with the general verdict that the party failed the country and its people and should never be given a chance to return to power.”