The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, says if elected President his administration will build a new Nigeria where things will work and the country will become buoyant and economically viable. He stated this in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, where he went to seek support for his presidential ambition. The former governor of Anambra State promised to make Kwara State an agricultural hub for industrialisation and exportation in the country. He called on the people of Kwara to shun vote-buyers. “They will come to you to vote for them and give you money. Collect their money and vote for us,” Obi said. Speaking about his dream, he added, “What we are doing here is new politics. We want to build a new Nigeria.  We don’t want to build a new Nigeria where we divide ourselves, but a Nigeria where we unite ourselves. A new Nigeria is possible; that is what Datti and I want to do. “In the past 10 years, Nigeria has been producing insecurity and poverty. Today, we have more people living in poverty than in any other country in the world. Unemployment, misery, and fuel scarcity dominate everywhere now, causing real-time suffering. “A new Nigeria we want to build is a Nigeria where we will start securing Nigeria. Nigerians should be able to move around in Nigeria and feel secure. We want to provide a united Nigeria where there will be law and order and everybody will be proud to say, ‘I am a Nigerian.’ We want to move Nigeria from consumption to production.” Meanwhile, one of the backers of the Labour Party presidential candiate, Prof Pat Utomi, on Tuesday, claimed that some politicians were lobbying officials of the party with millions of naira to facilitate their defection before the February 25 presidential election. He spoke during the unveiling of the Independent Campaign Council Secretariat in support of Obi. Utomi said, “The focus of power over purpose has led to transactions of nature where people don’t seem to matter. As we speak right now, some of those political parties have been paying millions and millions to Labour Party officials to decamp. But they still forget that what we need is a new Nigeria that our children can live in happily without insecurity.” Utomi said the ruling  All Progressives Congress lacks and apperas to be only interested in grabbing power. Utomi said if elected, Obi would move Nigeria from a consuming nation to producing nation.