For many Nigerians, the study route is one of the easiest and fastest way to ‘japa’ and Canada is one of the most preferred destinations for international students. Each year, hundreds of Nigerians migrate to Canada. The government recently revealed that it was opening doors to 1.5 million migrants between 2023 and 2025. So, are you seeking to move to Canada through a student visa? Here are six must-have documents required for a successful ‘japa’ trip 1. Valid passport You cannot successfully migrate to Canada without a valid passport. Your passport is your identity, as it shows the country you’re from and whether or not you migrated legally, as well as the type or category of visa approved. A passport is usually issued by your country of origin. The Nigeria Immigration Service is charged with the responsibility of issuing passports in the country. It is important to apply for and be issued this document before starting your admission process. 2. Previous Degree Certificate Lastly, as an international student seeking to be admitted into a Canadian university, you will usually be asked to upload a copy of your university certificate. However, for undergraduate admission, an o-level or diploma certificate will be required. 3. Academic transcript As an international student seeking admission in Canada, particularly for Masters, you must be able to provide your academic transcript from your university here in Nigeria. An academic transcript, also known as Transcript of Records is a vital record when applying to study abroad and it aids the higher educational institutions in gauging the abilities, qualifications and understanding of the candidate for a particular course. 4. Statement of purpose Universities abroad will require you to submit your application with a Statement of Purpose that articulates your career path and goals. This helps them in choosing the right candidate for the courses offered by them. A statement of purpose is usually a document which gives reasons why you are applying to the school and why you should be given admission to study your chosen course. Knowing how to prepare this document and writing it according to the demands of the school you are applying to is a plus. 5. Reference letters A majority of universities abroad require a reference letter. A reference letter is a recommendation from someone who knows you well and can vouch for your abilities. This letter helps the university admission committee to know and understand more about you. It is a great tool that showcases your skills and abilities as recognised by your referee. It serves as a validation of your resume for both academic and/or professional experiences · It gives a third-person opinion of your candidature. If you’re seeking to study in Canada, you should get at least three reference letters. However, the number of reference letters required from international students depends on the school. 6. Proof of English Language Proficiency (IELTS/TOEFL) Although many Africans can speak the English Language, Africa as a continent does not have a common language. So, you will be required to prove that you understand the language. English Language proficiency scores are essential both for admissions as well as while applying for visa It is for this reason that many schools in Canada require you to sit for IELTS/TOEFL or any other standardised English test. However, in recent times, some schools have stopped requesting this. It is important to note that depending on university, requirements may defer, however, the six documents listed above are most times a most-have for international students seeking to study in Canada.