Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State on Thursday met with bank managers, representatives of the Central Bank of Nigeria, security agencies and other stakeholders for an interactive session in an effort to find lasting solution to the suffering faced by citizens as a result of shortage of new naira notes and unending queues in banks. This was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Abba Anwar, and issued to newsmen on Friday. The meeting, according to Anwar, took place at Africa House, Government House, Kano, where the governor said the poor implementation of the naira redesign policy is a “sign of sabotage.” “The policy is a good one, but the implementation is poorly executed and ill-timed. The poor implementation is either a display of incapacity and/or as a sign of sabotage,” Anwar quoted Ganduje as saying. Explaining further, Ganduje said the implementation was not aimed at economic development, but for destroying democracy and causing confusion all over. “Implementation of the policy is our major concern and problem. Not the policy itself. If you want to implement such a policy, there is a need for you to make public enlightenment and engagement with stakeholders before you arrive at the implementation stage. “If you want to implement any policy as a leader you need to take many things into consideration. People are suffering. “You cannot successfully implement a policy without proper planning for it. You need strong institutions if you want implement this kind of policy.” The Kano State Government, he reiterated, would continue to fight for the good implementation of the new naira policy. “Probably the people targeted by the poor implementation of this policy are not even suffering like other citizens. Something must be done to ameliorate this hardship being faced by our people. “Since we are facing what I now called COVID-23 we are making all preparations towards distributing palliatives again.” He also promised that as people continue to face hard times, the state government is planning to flood streets with buses that would be moving people free of charge to major destinations in the state.