The Chief Executive Officer of Interstate Architects, Olusegun Ladega, who is a former President of the Association of Consulting Architects Nigeria, speaks to JOSEPHINE OGUNDEJI on how manpower shortage in the architectural industry can impact quality management in construction projects We have a lot of artisans who are in the building industry who did not go to school. So, how relevant is theoretical knowledge of construction? Theoretical foundations are critical. They equip the practitioner with the knowledge of the “what, how, and why” of the craft. Theory teaches the understanding of the technicalities and philosophy of the art and science of construction. For example, in a very simple sense, the structural design of a building is based on the knowledge of the force of gravity acting on the building structure and the science of the strength of materials. In Architecture, you learn all about space utilisation, how spatial configurations affect the user, the relationship between culture and design, the issues of life safety and utility, etc. You learn how the masters practice the craft, the whole gamut of the theories and philosophy of architecture. How has the in-house architectural migration affected the sector? What happens is that there are organisations that are not clients of architectural firms. However, they employ architects as their members of staff to do design works, among others, hence becoming in-house architects in those organisations. The fact is, for the young architects, it offers them better remuneration, however, if these young architects are not well experienced, they will be working without the supervision of a senior architect, and that negatively impacts the quality of work done and their own personal development, because they are not well mentored and monitored. I am not blaming those who left.  I am just saying that it has affected the profession in some ways. Usually, if there is a young architect who has had some level of experience in a well-established firm, it is taken that he has some level of exposure, and such a person is targeted. The issue is that what they have as in-house architects may not be a full standard output, which also impacts the profession. Why are architectural firms not paying good remuneration in order to retain young architects in the industry? I agree with you on this. That is what we should ordinarily consider. Unfortunately, even with the practices, many are unable to match the pay because these days to do a job and earn full fees is becoming a big challenge. And whatever salary you pay would be a function of your income as a business. How is the skilled manpower shortage in the industry affecting quality management in construction projects and operations? Quality management deals with the processes put in place to ensure compliance with standards, regulations, codes, etc., as well as ensuring that the final product is of high quality that guarantees total customer satisfaction. Skilled workmanship is just one of the requirements. The other, which is quite critical and requires action by a statutory agency, is the quality of materials, and manufactured goods in the market. The combination of a shortage of skills and infiltration of sub-standard materials into the market mandates a higher verification protocol for the professionals in the course of performing construction administration services. Imagine a master craftsman tiller having to work with tiles that are not perfectly rectilinear. What type of result are you going to get? How do we strengthen the individual trades involved in construction? By developing the appropriate vocational skills learning delivery systems and formal education structures, monitored apprenticeship, statutory competence testing and licensing. Given the peculiarity of our environment in Nigeria, what are the key considerations in determining quality policies and procedures? The most important is the regulation and monitoring of the construction industry’s supply network. This is a multi-sectoral and multi-agency activity that involves a number of government and security agencies that will prevent substandard materials from entering the markets. Also, the regulation of trade persons and artisans through licensing and certification as well as structured continuous skills update and development is very important. Building construction starting from the design phase is a multidisciplinary endeavour coordinated by an architect. It is imperative that such an architect is well-equipped to perform the role. However, the professional bodies and the industry regulator ensure this. In addition, the updating of capacity is very crucial through mandatory continuous professional development programmes and personal efforts, such as peer-to-peer information exchange and other knowledge acquisition platforms. What monitoring and control systems do you put in place to ensure that quality is not compromised? Monitoring and control start from the design phase with the production of detailed design and coordination of the drawings, construction documentation, the preparation of explicit specifications, and the trade preambles that will guide and control the construction works. In addition, construction phase monitoring and control covers the quality of materials and workmanship.  Typically, quality verification protocols are established at the pre-commencement of the construction through the establishment project specific explicit quality control measures that all members of the construction team commit to and the construction administrator ensures strict compliance throughout the duration of the works.  Typically, all materials and components delivered to the site or being assembled off-site are verified for conformity to specifications and standards before the contractor is allowed to incorporate them into the works. This may include taking samples for testing, verifying source and manufacture to standards, perusing manufacturers’ data sheets, and obtaining warranties where necessary. Also, monitoring the standards of workmen through regular inspections of work done is very essential. What is your view on the calls for the review of the extant building code? Nigeria’s National Building Code is a set of minimum standards on building pre-design, designs, construction, and post-construction stages with a view to ensuring quality, safety, and proficiency in the building industry. This should, as a matter of necessity, be reviewed from time to time based on extant realities and future projections. No code is effective if compliance is not enforced through robust monitoring. In this regard, the government should increase its capacity in the area of regulation and supervision of buildings during construction. The various codes of practice based on the art and science of the different built environment professions are reviewed regularly by the professionals. Hence, the Building Code must be subject to review. Are graduates in the construction industry ready for practice? All the built environment professions incorporate a minimum pupilage period and test of professional competence examination as part of the process of getting graduates to be industry ready. Unfortunately, there are not enough opportunities for the number of graduates turned out annually to undergo structured pupilage due to the impact of the economy on the profession and the activities of quacks, who offer cheap and dangerous alternatives to the exclusive services of registered professionals to the unsuspecting and uninformed public. How can costs be lowered without compromising quality? Ordinarily, there is a correlation between quality and cost. Creative design and innovation are, therefore, key to achieving lower costs without compromising quality. What can be done to minimise the impact of skilled manpower shortage on the construction industry? This can be done through training, certification, licensing, technical education, monitored structured apprenticeship, and continuous professional development programmes. How has the poor power situation in the country impacted the real estate industry in recent years? The poor power supply situation imposes on the designers the onus to design highly energy-efficient buildings, exploiting passive design strategies such as building orientation where site constraints permit, shading devices, etc., as well as well-thought-out material selection. Do you think the presidential candidates have in their campaigns shown adequate commitment to the provision of affordable housing if they win, given the about 28 million housing deficits in the country? First, there is a need to interrogate the number – 28 million. Is this talking about the gross number of persons in dire need of housing or the number of units of housing? If it is the number of houses, then extrapolating on the basis of an average household of four (which is extremely conservative), are we saying about half of the Nigerian population is in dire need of housing? The housing deficit figure is debatable and appears to me to be a figure plucked from the air. As pointed out by some experts, there is an urban housing shortage but not a nationwide alarming shortage. There is a mismatch between where there is demand due to massive rural-urban migration and housing being available for almost a pittance.  There is a demand for urban housing due to unrestrained migration, which is compounded by the issues of land availability and high costs of urban land. The result is the mushrooming of poorly built houses in the urban areas in wanton disregard of physical planning regulations and extant codes and standards. So, I expect to hear from the candidates what their proposed mass housing strategies are as well as creating opportunities for people to realise their full potential outside the congested urban centres. I would like to hear strategies from the candidates, not just blanket statements. There are several variables involved here: social housing, affordable housing, stemming rural-urban migration, as well as home ownership financing, and the land use act. It is also worth noting that the cost of infrastructure that supports housing such as roads, drainage, power, and water supply, to mention a few, impacts the sales price of a unit of housing, if the developer provides these facilities as part of the development.