The Nigeria Police Force, on Saturday, said it deemed it necessary to caution groups and individuals against divisive comments and utterances capable of heating up the polity and triggering a crisis in the nation, amidst prevailing outcries and reactions on the new naira policy in the country. The spokesperson for the NPF, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, revealed on Saturday in a statement obtained by our correspondent. This comes on the heels of an allegation by the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who on Thursday described the current scarcity of naira notes as part of an alleged plot to disrupt the forthcoming general elections to ensure an interim government takes over. El-Rufai alleged that the development was meant to ensure that the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, and other candidates of the party lose. He further claimed that those who lost out in the APC’s primaries were behind the plot. Also, the Department of State Services had invited a spokesperson for the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Femi Fani-Kayode, over allegations of a coup plot ahead of the February elections. Also, the Force Intelligence Bureau of the NPF had on Tuesday invited the former Minister of Aviation over his comment. The PUNCH reports that news made the rounds last week that Fani-Kayode, in a tweet, alleged that some top army personnel met with some politicians, including the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, in a bid to scuttle the February 25 general elections. He added that the meeting might be part of an agenda to provoke a coup and establish a new and unconstitutional order in the country. Reacting on Saturday, Adejobi said, “This call is highly imperative as the police perceive the reactions and utterances of certain groups and individuals as an attempt to heat up the polity and spontaneously instigate the populace against the government and its policies for their peculiar interests and gains. “The NPF, therefore, charges the citizenry of Nigeria to remain calm and embrace peace as the Federal Government has assured that it is taking the bull by the horn, assiduously to address the scarcity of naira and fuel and restore normalcy in all sectors. “Similarly, the Nigerian populace is hereby urged to desist from any act of violence, hooliganism, and vandalism that may jeopardize the ongoing electoral process, which is significant and critical in the transitional advancement of democracy in Nigeria. “Meanwhile, the NPF will like to assure the general public that it is working in concert with Defence, security, and intelligence agencies to provide a peaceful environment for all citizens to conduct their socio-economic activities.