Westa.solar, a clean energy company that offers an all-inclusive solar power purchase agreement has commissioned a 148kWp solar installation at FrootMultitradeNigeria Limited and a 600kWp solar installation at SacvinNigeria limited. It said in a statement that energy experts have shown relentless concern over the fuel scarcity in Nigeria and its effect on companies and industries, which showed the rapid increase of the world population and present-day industrial development, had created a massive demand and energy supply gap. The company stated that the installation would proffer possible solutions to these setbacks. The Country Manager, Westa.solar, Ayomide Agbola, said, despite the slow start for reliable renewable energy technologies in Nigeria, there was reason to be optimistic about the sector’s potential. “Westa.solar is a dedicated lover of Nigeria and West Africa, with a full understanding of how electricity, or the lack thereof, affects the growth of our economy and the nation as a whole,” he said. He recalled that in the first quarter of 2022, westa.solar secured a mezzanine loan of 1.5m euro from the Development Bank of Austria which had positively impacted the growth of the company’s portfolio. The company’s PPA model offered a robust power supply solution which included design, installation, financing and maintenance of rooftop and ground mounted solar projects for commercial and industrial clients in West Africa. “The goal is to ensure cost-saving on clients’ power usage while increasing the energy reliability and reducing the negative environmental impacts of the clients’ operations,” he said. Westa.solar said it recently commissioned its new solar rooftop power plant of 600KWp at Sacvin Industries Limited located in Kano state, Nigeria. This feat adds to a growing list of clientele under the company’s PPA / Lease-To-Own model. It is expected that over 10,000 tons of CO2 would be offset over the 15-year tenure of the project’s PPA. In addition, Sacvin’s projected savings will exceed 1.6Billion naira in 25 years, mostly achieved through reduction in use of diesel. Reduced dependence on the unstable national grid also contributes to the savings profile. Commending the service delivery and after-sales experience with westa.solar, the Managing Director of Froot, Joseph Yaghi, said  “We are enjoying reduced energy bills and generator maintenance costs, as our generators now operate more efficiently. Considering the continuous price increase in traditional energy generating options, this solar system is essential for businesses to reduce operational costs. An added advantage is the positive impact this system has on the environment.”