The Ekiti State Independent National Electoral Commission Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Ayobami Salami, has said that the commission will not disappoint Nigerians in the 2023 general elections. Salami stated this when he spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria  in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday shortly after monitoring the mock accreditation for the election in the state. Salami who described the mock accreditation in the state as successful, added that Nigerians should expect efficiency and best election in 2023. “I am very happy that the mock accreditation that went very well in all the polling units that we visited, people came out and there was no challenge recorded. “We are very optimistic that what we witnessed today will be replicated later this month and later in March in the general elections. “The people of Ekiti and Nigeria should expect efficiency, free and fair elections, and they should expect that we are going to do our best,” he said. Salami who said that INEC had received enough Bimodal Voter Accreditation System for the elections the state, urged the electorate to come out and vote on election days. “Ekiti people have commended the deployment of BVAS and I want to assure them that INEC will not disappoint them,” he said. NAN reporter who monitored the mock accreditation in the state, reports that although there was low turn out of registered voters, the BVAS functionality was commended by those who participated in the exercise. Mr Adewale Olalekun, Electoral Officers 1 at PU-017, in front of Baisanya’s House/ Baisanya Adebomi, in Ado Y Dallimore Ward, Ado LG, Ekiti Central, said the process was seamless and it took average of 11 seconds to accredit a voter. “The BVAS has been working perfectly. So far we have accredited 11 registered voters because the turned out is not much. We have 608 registered voters at this PU,” Olalekun said. He said that there was no challenge experienced at the polling unit. A registered voter at PU 15, front of Dele Ilori’s House/Basiri II, Ado “J” Okesa Ward, Ado Local Government, Ekiti Central, Chief Fakorede Oluwole, also commended INEC for the mock accreditation. Oluwole said that the process of accreditation was very fast, adding that if it will be as fast during the main elections, it would be commendable. NAN