The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, has assured that its personnel would be fully on the ground for the 2023 elections. This was contained in a statement signed by the Corps Spokesperson, Olusola Odumosu, on Thursday. The Corps gave the assurance against the backdrop that the operatives of the Corps plan to boycott 2023 election coverage due to outstanding allowances for 2022 Osun and Ekiti states’ election coverages. The Corps acknowledged that the personnel that took part in the Ekiti and Osun states governorship elections in 2022 were yet to receive their allowances. According to the statement, the management of NSCDC is taking the necessary steps to see that personnel are paid their allowances before the 2023 election. The statement read “The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps is more dedicated than ever to ensure citizens and the country at large is adequately secured to enable citizens to experience a free, fair and transparent election. “There had been reports that operatives of the Corps plan to boycott 2023 election coverage due to outstanding allowances for 2022 Osun and Ekiti election coverage. “The Corps wishes to debunk such speculations as thousands of NSCDC personnel will be deployed to every nook and cranny, critical national infrastructures not exempting the protection of Independent National Electoral Commission, its staff and electoral materials, all in a bid to ensure a peaceful election. “Although personnel of the Corps that took part in the Ekiti and Osun state governorship elections in 2022 are yet to receive their allowances, the management of NSCDC has taken bold steps in ensuring the allowances are paid before the presidential election. “The Federal Government recently released Osun election allowances which are in the process of disbursement to operatives who participated in the election duty and it was also promised that the allowances for Ekiti election are in the process of release to the Corps. “The recently released fund was due to the commitment and passion of the Commandant General, Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi to ensure that staff welfare is not tampered with. “Worried by the initial delay, Dr Audi, set up an action committee, headed by the Director of Finance and Accounts, Comfort Danladi, to make necessary follow-ups with the Federal Ministry of Finance in ensuring the release of the funds. “The cooperation received from the Ministry of finance in respect of the payment of the election allowances prompted the assurances by the Corps’ management to personnel that the process had begun, hence, the need to sue for more patience at that time.” The Corps, however, urged concerned personnel to exercise more patience as the payment process cannot be completed in one day.