The Police Service Commission has approved the appointment of three Assistant Inspectors-General of Police, Hafiz Inuwa, Aji Janga, and Adeleke Bode, to the rank of Deputy Inspectors-General of Police. The new DIGs are expected to fill the vacancies created by the retirement of the former DIGs representing the North Central, North East and North West geopolitical zones. The spokesperson for the PSC, Ikechukwu Ani, announced this in a statement on Sunday. Inuwa, the Force Secretary, will be replacing retired DIG Mustapha Dan- Daura for the North West slot. Janga from the North East will replace DIG Zanna Ibrahim who retired on November 26, 2022, while Bode of North Central will replace DIG Sanusi Lemu who retired on January 31 this year. The new appointments were part of the decisions reached during the commission’s reconvened 18th plenary which was held in Abuja on Thursday and Friday and chaired by its acting chairman, Justice Clara Ogunbiyi. Meanwhile, the commission suspended the promotion of eight Commissioners of Police to the rank of Assistant Inspectors-General and 11 Deputy Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Commissioners due to their failure to appear before it for the mandatory promotion interview. Ani said, “The PSC had sent invitations to the officers to appear before it for the usual interaction to ascertain their suitability and capability for the new offices. “The commission expressed surprise on their failure to honour the invitation especially as the 2023 general elections are just days away.” The commission also approved the promotion of 10 Assistant Commissioners of Police to the next rank of Deputy Commissioners; 17 Chief Superintendents of Police to Assistant Commissioners and 301 Superintendents of Police to Chief Superintendents. Meanwhile, 47 skipped Deputy Superintendents of Police from previous recommendations to the commission were also promoted to Superintendents of Police while 665 Assistant Superintendents of Police were promoted to Deputy Superintendents of Police.