  The All Progressives Congress in Osun State has resolved to challenge the outcome of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections in the state before the tribunal. The candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party were elected in the three Senatorial Districts of the state and also won all the nine House of Representatives seats. While addressing journalists at the Tinubu/Shettima Campaign Office in Osogbo, on Monday, Osun APC acting chairman, Tajudeen Lawal, alleged hoodlums backed by the Peoples Democratic Party disrupted polls in many places and attacked several members of the party. Lawal alleged that the hoodlums, who attacked and pursued APC members in some polling units in Iragbiji, Ikirun, Ila-Orangun, Ile-Ife, Ikire, Ilesa, Okuku, Inisa, Ede, Ipetumodu, Edun-Abon, Ifetedo and Gbongan, were sponsored by the ruling party. He further said the perpetrators of the attacks were not challenged by the police operatives. Lawal further said, “The presidential and National Assembly elections of last Saturday were held under a siege with the PDP hoodlums having a field day across the state to the extent that it would be an impossible utopia for any political party which is playing by the rules to win the elections against the political vampire called the PDP whose political thugs were ready to shed the blood of any strong-headed APC member or supporter. “Our bone of contention is that we are challenging the results of both the presidential and National Assembly elections held across Osun State last Saturday. But as ardent believers and doers of the rules of law in all our endeavours, we enjoin our numerous members and supporters to refuse to be downcast with the unusual and strange turn of the political event which is a temporary issue and a mere passing phase in the political history of the state. “Our message to the beneficiaries in the declared phantom election results is that they should not rejoice as most of the PDP candidates will have cases to answer at the tribunal.” When contacted, the Director of Media of the PDP, Oladele Olabamiji, said the APC was free to challenge the results but denied that the party or government intimidated voters during the poll. “I don’t know whether there was any credence to such a claim that thugs were moving around the state, even with the presence of security everywhere. It never happened anywhere. I wouldn’t know where such an allegation is coming from. As far as I am concerned, they are just beating about the bush. “The election was held under a very peaceful atmosphere and the results declared reflected the collective will of the Osun people. They (APC) should not begin to make the mistake of making the court appear as if it is a department in the APC. “The court is for all Nigerians regardless of class, status and political affiliation. Wherever they want to go, we will meet them there. Anybody condemning what happened on Saturday is just messing around,” Olabamiji concluded.