The Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has called for deeper private sector participation in the blue economy initiative to harness greater benefits from the maritime industry. Delivering a paper in Lagos as guest speaker at a lunch hour lecture series organised by Academy for Maximum Achievement, Jamoh gave an expository discourse on the many untapped opportunities in the maritime industry. He gave the reassurances that the deep blue project for which the federal government procured air, land and water assets for maritime security has made the industry safer and removed Nigeria from the list of countries with high incidence of attacks. He described the copious opportunities in shipbuilding, ship repairs and recycling as open areas that will benefit the economy in the establishment of businesses within the value chain, create employment and boost foreign exchange earnings for government and private concerns. Giving an overview of Nigeria’s maritime potential, Jamoh in a statement by the agency said 28 out of the 36 states of the federation have navigable inland waters carrying huge resources that could generate wealth. He said NIMASA under his leadership stepped up sensitisation of state governors about blue economy and had urged them to pass the message to citizens of their states Nigerian waters, according to him, are linked to five neighbouring countries and give ancillary support to other non-maritime sectors like agriculture, tourism and other trading ventures. The NIMASA DG listed vessel ownership, chandelling, stevedoring, freight forwarding, haulage, fishing, marine biology, marine geology, underwater engineering, ship brokerage, import and export as areas that have openings for more investments. He disclosed that NIMASA hopes to revive Nigeria’s quest for revenue from legitimate bunkering services, a move the country lost about 20 years ago. Speaking earlier,  the Leader of the Corporate Think Tank Group, Margaret Orakwusi, said it was a knowledge-sharing platform She said, “The Corporate Think-Tank was created by the Academy for Maximum Achievement as an interdisciplinary platform to bring together experts and leaders from various walks of life to stimulate discourse on critical and pressing national socio-economic issues. And galvanize research and expert contributions towards public policy support and implementation” Orakwusi said Also speaking at the event, Chief Executive Officer of ENL Consortium, Vicky Haastrup, commended Jamoh’s feats as NIMASA DG. She described environmental sustainability within ports areas as critically deserving of government attention. She also called for increased female participation in the country’s maritime industry, observing that women occupy only 18 percent of offices in the maritime industry. A former Chairman of the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority, Dr Chris Asoluka, commended the policies and actions put in place for a sustainable blue economy in Nigeria. Asoluka added that the country needed more of action to match policies on paper for full realisation of the set goals