The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has secured the conviction of one Mr. Ojoko Robinson, a director with Rojoke CNE Services Limited, and the company, for contract fraud to the tune of N13,710,252.44. The commission had filed seven charges against Robinson and the company before Hon. Justice N. O. Dimgba of the Federal High Court, Asaba Judicial Division, on allegations bordering on forgery. The spokesperson for the ICPC, Azuka Ogugua, revealed this in a statement on Friday. Ogugua noted that the ICPC, in a charge No. FHC/ASB/3C/2022, informed the court of how the defendants used forged documents in bidding and securing two World Bank contracts, contravening Sections 1(2) (c) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17, LFN 2004, adding that having listened to both arguments, the trial judge found the defendants guilty on all counts, as the prosecution proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt. The ICPC told our correspondent that the conviction took place on January 23, 2023, but full details was made available to the commission recently. Ogugua said, “In handing down his judgment, Justice Dimgba ruled that the defendants should refund 25 percent of the benefits derived from the contracts to the World Bank through the Asaba office of the ICPC. “The trial Judge further ordered the first defendant, who is an Information Technology expert, to teach Information Communication Technology at the Delta State ICT Hub, Asaba for two years at his own expense,” The first defendant was to work out a programme with the management of the ICT Hub within two weeks from the date of the judgment and file a notice of compliance with the registrar of the court. The Judge also ruled that the first defendant, having been sent for training on integrity by the World Bank, was to deliver regular talks on integrity to final-year students in three secondary schools (two in Asaba and one in his hometown) and file progress report every three months with the registrar of the court.