The leadership of the Jama’atu Nasril Islam has condemned the killing of 47 herdsmen during the accidental airstrikes by the Nigerian Air Force in Nasarawa, calling on the Federal Government to fish out the perpetrators for prosecution. The JNI is being led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, who’s also the spiritual leader of Nigerian Muslims. The JNI through its Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar-Aliyu, in a terse statement in Kaduna on Thursday, also called on the Federal Government to compensate victim families over the loss of their beloved ones during the attack. According to the group, the government should thoroughly interrogate the events that culminated in the most unfortunate bloodletting in Doma, adding that the government should equally investigate its military, especially the Nigerian Air Force on the matter. The JNI warned against the government sweeping the matter under the carpet, saying the incident is one too many as the attack was calculated to instill fears between farmers and herdsmen in Nasarawa state. The statement said, “Jama’atu Nasril Islam after careful assessments and following of events as they unfolded over the Doma heinous attack, condemns in the strongest terms the carnage. “It also identifies with the government and people of Nasarawa State, on the gruesome massacre of over 40 innocent Fulani herders in Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. After the grotesque slayings of hundreds of cows by the so-called unidentified persons, without any intervention from the security forces in the area. “As a matter of fact, some sources claimed helicopters bombed the victims, while others said it was a horrific sporadic coordinated attack from different angles on the victims, a very heart-rending and mind-boggling situation. “The carnage was one incidence too many to bear. It should be stated that this singular act of heartlessness in Doma was a calculated attempt to instill fears among farmers and herders.” Saying that Nigerians were desperately yearning for concrete action on the matter, the Sultan group called on the government “Identify with victims and places of attacks by commiserating with the people, it is better late than never. “A national broadcast after the visit would be very necessary, to dissuade reprisals. Clearly, people are angered over many recent happenings affecting innocent defenseless people and the government need to act fast. “The Federal Government of Nigeria should pay compensation (Diyya) to the bereaved families, for equity, justice, and foreclosing of any possibility of vengeance or reprisal. “Prosecute officials that are found wanting in the discharge of their assignment(s), so as to serve as a deterrent to other nonchalant officials. “Collaborate with relevant security agencies with a timeline to bringing an end, and/or at least avert all security threats bedeviling the country and also mop-up small arms and light weapons (SALWs) in the hands of criminals, or else Nigeria will continue to witness the rise in arms proliferation for self-defense amongst citizens, since the government is seemingly not so disposed to doing so.”