PremiumTrust Bank has announced plans to boost its expansion programmes as it steps up efforts to bring its services closer to its customers. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, PremiumTrust Bank, Emmanuel Emefienim, disclosed this at the opening of 8th branch of the bank in Redemption City, Mowe, Ogun State recently. According to Emefienim, although the industry appears to be congested, the bank is set to impact lives and communities with quality services to be delivered in record time. He said, “We have a vision to become the number one digital bank in Nigeria before the end of this year. We are building some serious app that will transform the industry within a very short time. A lot of work has gone into it. It’s going to provide a lot of solutions and answers to a lot of the banking needs that people would want to ask and especially in this period where we are going cashless.” He explained that the bank’s digital solutions would afford customers the opportunity to perform transactions seamlessly. He added that customers’ needs are at the core of the bank’s vision. Commenting on the naira scarcity, Emefienim said, “It’s a collective responsibility. The Central Bank of Nigeria is working really hard. We feel the pain of everybody but I know it’s going to be temporary. Nigerians should be patient. “What I can assure you is that all the banks are working round the clock to ensure that the new notes are dispensed. As you can see here all the ATMs are dispensing but people need to be patient and within a very short time, we will all overcome this and become stronger as a people and as a nation.” The bank chief said the financial institution which was established months ago had won three notable awards, namely the Most Innovative Bank, the Fastest-Growing Bank, and the Bank of the Year in Terms of Sports Development. “That tells you that we didn’t just come to make up the number, we also came to add value. We will not only do business here, we will also impact the community. In all of the locations where we have branches, we have impacted lives, communities and Redemption Camp will not be an exemption “ the CEO added. To develop sports in the country, the CEO announced that the bank had entered into a partnership with the Athletic Federation of Nigeria. He said, “Two top athletes in Nigeria, Tobi Amusan and Eze Brume are brand ambassadors for PTB. So, we are deliberate about what we do, we don’t just come here to make money, we’re also concerned about the people around us; how we can empower them and make life more meaningful. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who opened the bank’s branch, said there was a need for financial institutions in the camp to contribute to their host community. “This is a bank that thinks of impacting society even before they begin to operate. We have several banks represented in this camp, some of them have been around for years and have not contributed anything to what’s going on in the camp. I remember a couple of years ago, I had to say, write to these people. You are here, you are doing business here. He further lauded the bank on its arrival and commended its good work on alleviating the pressure of the naira crisis for the host community. 