The House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committee to Investigate Alleged Loss of Over $2.4bn in Revenue from Illegal Sale of 48 Million Barrels of Crude in 2015 Including Crude Oil Export from 2014 Till Date, is to write the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), and the Directorate of Public Prosecution to demand details of the case against some whistle-blowers. The Chairman of the committee, Merk Gbillah, decried the alleged harassment and pursuit of whistle-blowers who exposed the alleged illegal oil sales by operatives of the Nigeria Police Force and INTERPOL, asking why the ministry, the DPP and the security agencies decided to reopen the abandoned case after the lawmakers commenced their investigation. However, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, who denied the allegation, asked the committee to forward its enquiries to the justice ministry and the DPP. The House had on December 20, 2022, resolved to constitute an ad hoc committee to investigate a whistle-blower’s allegation of illegal sale of 48 million barrels of Nigeria’s Bonny Light crude in China in 2015 and the insurance status of the cargo. The committee is also to investigate all crude oil exports and sales by Nigeria from 2014 to date, with regards to quantity, insurance, revenue generated, remittances into the Federation Account or other accounts as well as utilisation of the revenue for the period under review. In addition, the panel will investigate all proceeds recovered through the Whistle-Blowers Policy of the regime led by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the level of compliance by the policy. These resolutions followed the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by a member of the House, Ibrahim Isiaka, titled ‘Alleged Loss of over $2.4Billion in Revenue from Illegal Sale of 48 Million Barrels of Crude Oil Export in 2015, Including Crude Oil Exports from 2014 till Date.’ The committee, which held its inaugural meeting on December 29, held its first investigative hearing on Thursday, where the lawmakers grilled an Assistant Inspector General of Police and the Head, INTERPOL National Central Bureau, Nigeria, Garba Umar, who said he represented the IGP. Chairman of the committee, Mark Gbillah, while echoing the allegations made by the whistle-blowers, mentioned the role played by a presidential committee. Made up of a former Chief of Staff to the President, the late Abba Kyari; a former Group Managing Director of the defunct Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Maikanti Baru; a former Director-General of the Department of State Services, Lawal Daura; and the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, Mele Kyari; and the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN). Gbillah said, “There is an allegation that sometime in 2015, a presidential committee was set up, which included the late Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari; the late GMD of the NNPC, Baru; the former DG (of) DSS, Daura. It was chaired by retired General Mohammed Umar and the current CEO of NNPCL, Mele Kyari, who was then the Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Department. The Attorney-general at some point also became a member of the committee. “That committee is said to have travelled to China at the instance of a whistle-blower of Mexican citizenship, about the existence in China of millions of barrels of Nigeria’s crude. And this individual expressed an interest to purchase this crude, which the government at the time allegedly needed to investigate first. “So, this committee went to China, confirmed the existence of this crude, but this individual concerned alleges that when the process of selling this crude commenced, they were no longer contacted and they have evidence of the fact that the crude was sold without the money being remitted to the coffers of the Nigerian Government.” The chairman added, “Now when these issues started to occur, they (whistle-blowers) said that they were being intimidated and threatened, and had spurious allegations made against them that involved them being charged to court over this matter. Eventually, the matter was discontinued. “Now, fast forward to now, because that case was stalled; it may interest you to know that at the time when these allegations seemingly occurred, the department that was sent in the police to investigate this was the Force CID, then under the DIG Michael Ogbizi, now retired. The report was supposed to have been made and forwarded for action by the Attorney-General. But it will also be something we would want to understand why now. If it is related to that issue, why is the INTERPOL writing to some of these individuals?” Gbillah noted that the Mexican businessman had since left Nigeria for his country, adding that he would be meeting with the Mexican Ambassador to Nigeria later on Thursday. “The committee members would go to Mexico – this is how detailed the House of Representatives is – to meet with this individual. We would not want any other country’s citizens to be oppressed the way we would not want a Nigerian in Mexico to be oppressed when they are telling the truth,” he stressed. According to the chairman, two of the whistle-blowers who are Nigerians have approached the committee “willing to give detail of what transpired in this whole situation.” Responding to the issues, Umar stated that the police have the responsibility to act on any petition received against individuals and entities. Umar said the INTERPOL had received a petition against some individuals who blackmail and extort money from government officials and consequently invited a Mexican, Marco Antonio Ramirez; and Francis Ibomor and 40 others who are Nigerians. He said, “This is to inform the committee that INTERPOL is not investigating a new case. The Office of the Attorney General of the Federation only seeks for INTERPOL assistance by using INTERPOL tools to arrest the fugitive who has since flown out of the country in order to escape justice. “It is our kind advice that all enquiries into this case can be directed to the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and competent court of law that are handling the matter. It will be prejudicial for the Nigeria Police Force to disclose or go into a matter that is pending before a competent court of jurisdiction. “However, the Nigeria Police Force is ready to assist the National Assembly in their oversight function. Attached herewith are a copy of the letter from the Attorney-General of the Federation, charge sheet, summary of the prosecution’s case against the defendants, hearing notice and remand warrant from the Federal High Court. “I have no knowledge. I have no interest. There is a request from a competent ministry asking us to trace these people. And they attached a court warrant. I will never allow anybody to use me. It’s a request. Those who may be able to answer are those who investigated the matter and the office of the attorney general. But I assure you we are not investigating. We are assisting.” Gbillah, in his ruling, asked Malami and the DPP to furnish the committee with details of the matter. The chairman said, “Clerk, please do a letter to the Director of Public Prosecution of the Federation and the Honourable Attorney-General of the Federation to furnish this committee with a detailed report of the investigation of the allegation against these individuals, as it was done by DIG Michael Ogbizi or any other department of the police. “I will also want a certified true copy of the letter from the DPP to the Inspector-General of Police to carry out that investigation in the first instance, and the reasons for why that investigation was carried out. “I will also want to get the certified true copy of the case filed by the Director of Public Prosecutions against these individuals before any court of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria.”