…say officers were never arrested The Nigeria Police Command has said it has commenced a full-scale investigation into the alleged extrajudicial killings, corruption, and high-handedness levelled against some police officers serving at the Zone 13 Command, Ukpo-Dunukofia under the Anambra State Command. This was revealed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on his official Twitter handle. He stated that the investigator has moved to scenes and sits for on-site assessment while revealing that the particular officers accused of the alleged heinous crimes were never arrested nor detained. This is coming after an anonymous blogger, Gistlover, on Instagram revealed with evidence that three officers attached to the Zone 13 Command, Ukpo-Dunukofia were involved in extrajudicial killings, organ harvesting and trading, extortion and highhandedness.
Following the revelation, the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, set up a special investigation team to commence investigations into the grave allegations revealed by the anonymous blogger. In a series of tweets, the Force PPRO wrote, “ANAMBRA ALLEGED KILLINGS: PANEL COMMENCES FULL-SCALE INVESTIGATIONS, CALLS FOR MORE CREDIBLE FACTS As Police Promises to Reorganise Anambra RRS “The Special Investigation Panel investigating the allegations of extrajudicial killings, extortion, unprofessionalism, and highhandedness against Police Officers of the Anambra State Command and Zone 13 Ukpo-Dunukofia, has commenced a full-scale investigation into the allegations as investigators have moved to scenes and sites for on-the-spot-assessment. “The team has however been tasked to harness all available means and spread its tentacles towards ensuring that all information received via the channels made available to the public is properly examined to assist the investigations, subsequent report of findings, and recommendations. “The Nigeria Police Force wishes to disabuse the minds of well-meaning members of the public and all interested stakeholders that the panel comprising respected and thoroughbred officers including officers of the IGP Monitoring Unit, reports directly to the Inspector-General of Police, and shall discharge the responsibility professionally and ensure justice. “The NPF also reassures that the Anambra RRS, Awkuzu, will definitely be reorganized and sanitized to suit the present ideologies and administrative styles of the Force leadership in conformity with international best practices. This sanitization will be equally extended to other tactical squads across the NPF.
“Furthermore, it is imperative to clear the air that the officers fingered in the trending allegation were never arrested or detained.”