The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has said the interest and protection of the state was paramount, saying he cannot mislead Rivers people on his political decision concerning the presidential candidate to support on Saturday. Wike made the assertion on Thursday while inaugurating some road projects in the Port Harcourt Local Government Area. The first project that Wike inaugurated at the Ojoto Roundabout in Mile 2 Diobu in Port Harcourt was the dualised Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road. Other roads projects were the reconstructed/rehabilitated Edeokia/Femie/Aeroplane Drive/Okuru Junction to Abuloma Jetty Road. Wike said he had always advised political officer holders or those in positions of trust to know that when their people confide in them, they should use the opportunity to better their lot. He said, “When you have an opportunity, when the people give you their confidence, you must also make them happy. How do you make them happy? It is by making sure you provide them with things that change their environment, with things that will better their lives, with things that will improve economic activities in their area.” Wike said Rivers people had offered him great opportunities to accomplish so much in his private life and political career. “For what Rivers State has given me, I owe them (Rivers people) a lot in my life and I will continue to protect their interest. I am not going to sell Rivers State to anybody for a pot of porridge. “And that is why if I tell you this is the right place, know it is the right place. I am not going to deceive you. I am not one of those leaders who are running around for their personal interest.” He advised the people to be wary of some of their leaders, who promote crisis among their people, leading to killings instead of creating opportunities. In his address, Rivers State Commissioner for Works, Dr George-Kelly  Alabo, said the dualised Azikiwe/Iloabuchi Road was completed in six months, and it had improved the aesthetics of the area, changed the socioeconomic dynamics of the people and eased vehicular traffic flow.