The Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Kwara State, Mallam Attahiru Madami, on Thursday took delivery of some sensitive materials for the Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections from the Central Bank of Nigeria, Ilorin branch. Madami, who was at the CBN office, supervised the movement of the materials out of the bank premises. He said that the materials would in turn be distributed to all the 16 local government areas of the state where the election would take place. The REC said that the materials would be accompanied and monitored by the police and other security personnel to ensure that they are delivered safely to their destinations before the commencement of the election. He said that the election materials would be delivered to all parts of the state. Meanwhile, the police in the state have read the riot act to its officers on election security duties, saying that it is a task that must be achieved in the state. The Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 8, Lokoja, comprising Kogi and Kwara states, AIG Asafa Adekunle, leading two commissioners and a deputy commissioner of police from force headquarters, have arrived in the state to ensure a seamless electoral process. The police, in a statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Kwara Command, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, said “The AIG and the other senior police officers headed straight to INEC headquarters, where a meeting with stakeholders was held and a peace accord signed by the political actors in a bid to ensure a peaceful conduct of election in Kwara State. “The team moved straight from INEC office to the police headquarters, where the heads of all the tactical teams in the command were already seated for the arrival of the AIG and his team.” Asafa, who read the riot act to the tactical teams while delivering the message of the Inspector General of Police to the men, noted that the IGP has zero tolerance to indiscipline by any policeman and he is interested in the successful conduct of a peaceful, credible, and acceptable election. He advised the team leaders to ensure that every policeman deployed for election duty take his duties seriously, emphasizing that any act of dereliction on the part of any policeman during the course of the elections would be met with stiff sanctions. He informed the officers of the effort the IGP has exerted that there be no room for failure. The states’ Commissioner of Police, CP Paul Odama and CP Arungwa Kwazul, in their separate remarks harped on the need for a sense of unity and teamwork by officers and men of the command if the desired goal must be achieved. They enjoined the citizens and residents of the state to be rest assured of their safety and security before, during and after the election, while also advising members of the public to shun any act of lawlessness, as any person arrested for any criminal activities would be made to face the full wrath of the law.