The United States Embassy in Nigeria has  issued an advisory to its citizens in Nigeria alerting them on possible violence ahead of the forthcoming general elections. In a notice on its website, titled ‘Possible Protests Leading to Elections and Restricted Movements on Election Days – February 25 and March 11’ the embassy urged its citizens to avoid rallies as “they can turn violent with little or no notice.” Stating that movements would be restricted during the period, the advisory further stated that citizens should have food and water supply for at least three days at home, in case movements are restricted beyond election days. “The Government of Nigeria will restrict the movement of all personal vehicles on election days across the country. Information from the Government of Nigeria indicates that only law enforcement personnel and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)-accredited election observers will be allowed to move freely along the roads. “Based on past election practice, we anticipate personal vehicles will be blocked from any and all attempted road movement from 00:00 until 18:00 February 25 and 00:00 until 18:00 March 11. Please be advised that movement restrictions may be extended at any time.  Be alert to Government of Nigeria information about the restrictions. “Rallies and demonstrations are commonplace before and after elections.  U.S. citizens should avoid any of these types of events, as they can turn violent with little or no notice.” Violence has erupted in various states and cities across the country with only few days to the election as Nigerians protest against the Central Bank of Nigeria’s naira redesign policy that has left many stranded due to inability to access the newly redesigned notes. The advisory added, “Have three days of food and water in your residence in case movement restrictions are extended beyond election day; Have a pre-packed bag that contains your travel documents, medications, toiletries, cash, and clothes in case you need to relocate from your residence; Avoid large crowds “Be aware of your surroundings; Keep a low profile; Carry proper identification; Review your personal security plans; Keep your cell phone charged in case of emergency; Monitor local media for updates.”