A Public Health Physician and Epidemiologist, Dr. Japhet Olugbogi, has urged Nigerians to adopt preventive measures against the adverse effects of hazy weather being experienced in some parts of the country. The epidemiologist stated that hazy weather had negative effects on health, warning that it could cause broken lips and worsen the health of those with existing respiratory diseases like asthma. Olugbogi, who is the Medical Officer of Health, Ifelodun Local Council Development Area of Lagos State, disclosed this during an exclusive interview with PUNCH HealthWise while advising Nigerians to wear face masks to cushion the effects. Hazy weather conditions are those in which things are difficult to see, because of light mist, hot air, or dust. The United States Environmental Protection Agency says haze is caused when sunlight encounters tiny pollution particles in the air, adding that air pollutants come from a variety of natural and manmade sources. According to the agency, natural sources include windblown dust, and soot from wildfires while manmade sources can include motor vehicles, electric utility and industrial fuel burning, and manufacturing operations. The physician told our correspondent that hazy weather affects the different parts of the body including the eye. He said children, the elderly, and people with chronic lung disease or heart disease were more sensitive to the health effects of haze, and should adopt preventive measures. Olugbogi said, “Some people’s lips can be broken and the dust itself can cause certain respiratory tract infections. The dust can also be bad for people who have asthma or people who are prone to asthma attacks. “The dust is also bad for the eye of people who climb on motorcycles a lot. The dust is bad for their eyes. For those who already have eye infections or who have eye irritations, it can cause their irritations to be worse. “And for those who don’t have it yet, it can become irritant to their eyes. Hazy weather causes a lot of respiratory tract infections and makes people uncomfortable. “People can also swallow a lot of dust, especially those who walk or sell by the roadsides and they can have respiratory tract infections. They can also have throat irritation and all sorts of irritations.” On the effects of the hazy weather on the skin, the physician said it could make the skin of some people to be scaly, stressing that people could have skin irritation and eczema. Giving further insight into the effects of hazy weather on the skin, the physician noted, “It can cause people skin rashes and cosmetically when people take their bath and they don’t rub cream on their body, their skin can be unpleasant to look. “The weather is also a bit difficult for some people to manage. The weather can be hard on those who have arthritis in the morning when everywhere is very cold. “It can make those who have arthritis of the knees or hips or ankles experience worse pain than they used to encounter.” Despite its worrisome effects, the epidemiologist said people could protect themselves from the unpleasant effects of the hazy weather by wearing nose masks to be able to prevent themselves from swallowing so much dust and germs. The physician who is the Executive Director of the Japhet Olugbogi Foundation, counseled, “People can also protect themselves from inhaling dust and germs. “For those who are susceptible to dust, wearing nose masks can help them deal with the situation and prevent themselves from asthma attacks. “Also, those who have lips and skin that are susceptible to this kind of weather can apply adequate cream on their body. They can also apply lip mousse on their lips copiously to prevent them from having cracked lips.” The United States Environmental Protection Agency also affirmed that some of the pollutants which form haze have also been linked to serious health problems and environmental damage. It noted, “Exposure to very small particles in the air has been linked with increased respiratory illness, decreased lung function, and even premature death. “In addition, particles such as nitrates and sulfates contribute to acid rain formation which makes lakes, rivers, and streams unsuitable for many fish, and erodes buildings, historical monuments, and paint on cars.”