The North-West zone of the All Progressives Congress, on Sunday, said the defection of notable politicians from the opposition parties and reconciliation of aggrieved stakeholders of the party signal an imminent victory for its standard bearer, Bola Tinubu, in the February 25 presidential poll. This was disclosed in a statement issued in Abuja on Sunday by the National Vice Chairman of the APC (North-West), Salihu Lukman. An excited Lukman praised the APC for unifying the seven states of the North-West namely Kaduna, Kano, Jigawa, Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and Kebbi through his rallies. The development is coming in the wake of Tinubu’s rally in Kebbi where he promised to boost agriculture and revive the moribund Argungu fishing festival in the region. The APC vice chair noted that the party leaders and candidates in the biggest voting bloc had put aside their differences and challenges arising from internal wrangling to work for the success of Tinubu. While emphasising the importance of the seven states, the APC NWC member noted that it is on record that any presidential candidate that wins the North-West always emerge as the president. The Kaduna politician specifically expressed confidence that the large defection of party leaders from opposition parties to the APC, including the Jigawa Governorship candidate of the Labour Party and serving Commissioners in the PDP government of Sokoto State, would count in their favour. He said, “The ability of our party leaders to reconcile and forge a united front in the North-West Zone is largely responsible for all the successful rallies in all the seven states. We also wish to acknowledge the successful campaign rallies and activities of all our candidates. “We also believe in the large defection of political leaders from other opposition parties to the APC, including the Jigawa Governorship candidate of Labour Party and serving Commissioners in PDP government of Sokoto State. “All these signposts victory for the APC in the North-West for our Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the Presidential election of February 25 and all our candidates for National Assembly. It also signposts victory in the Governorship and State Assembly elections in all the seven states of North-West. We are very confident that with Allah’s blessing all the seven states of North-West, including Sokoto State will be APC states as from May 29. “Without doubt, APC North-West Presidential Rally has affirmed that North-West is APC and APC is North-West. We must remind Nigerians that the political history of Nigeria has shown that every Presidential candidate that wins the votes of North-West wins the Presidency.”