A former Minister of Aviation, Osita Chidoka, has urged the Federal Government to intervene in the alleged organ harvesting case of former lawmaker Ike Ekweremadu in the United Kingdom. Chidoka, who decried the refusal of the UK government to allow Ekweremadu’s daughter, Sonia, to get a kidney transplant and save her life while the suit continued, begged the federal government to intervene, adding that Sonia had a right to life. Chidoka made this appeal in a statement he posted to his Instagram page on Wednesday. The ex-minister, who said he had known the ex-lawmaker for the past 30 years, stated that he witnessed the Monday proceeding of the suit against Ekweremadu and his family in London. “On Monday, I was at the London Criminal court to observe the trial of Ike, Beatrice, and Sonia Ekweremadu. Some weeks before I had visited him at Wandsworth Prison. He was in good spirits. Ike is a family friend, a close ally, and an associate. My prayers, thoughts, and good wishes are with them at this time. “We have known each other for the past 30 years when he was a grad student and part-time lecturer at the University of Nigeria Enugu Campus. His subsequent rise from Local Government Chairman to Deputy Senate President is a story for another day,” he wrote. He stated that while he would not comment on the case because it was still in court, he found “distressing” the
“refusal of the UK authorities to allow Sonia to get a kidney transplant despite a deluge of donors. I think the Nigerian government and we the citizens must call on the UK authorities to allow her to get a kidney transplant in furtherance of her fundamental right to life.” Chidoka added that, “No matter the outcome of the case, Sonia deserves a chance to live.” Appealing to the FG for its intervention, Chidoka wrote, “I appeal to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to please intervene in this serious issue of a possible violation of her right to life by the UK government. “An intervention will save Sonia’s life and will be in line with global examples of countries intervening on behalf of their citizens.” Commending the Nigerian High Commission in the UK for monitoring the case at it develops, Chidoka said, “I am impressed the Nigerian High Commission has been and still is present as an observer at the trial.” He added, “As for the current travails of the Ekweremadu family, I can only say: this too, shall pass.”