A seven-year-old boy has been feared dead in a fire that engulfed two residential buildings at 19, Adekanbi Street, off Alli Street, in the Mile 12, Ketu area of Lagos State, on Thursday. The Director, Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, Margaret Adeseye, in a statement confirmed the death, adding that due to a delay in distress call, the raging fire caused severe damage to the buildings before it was subdued by the agency. She said, “An earlier fire outbreak that engulfed a residential building at 19, Adekanbi Street, off Alli Street, Mile 12, Ketu, Lagos involved two bungalows. “Due to delay in distress call, the raging fire caused severe damage to the buildings, and a male child of about seven years old was recovered from the building and suspected dead before the spread of the fire was confined and eventually subdued.” Meanwhile, speaking on another fire that gutted a Cinema located in a mall in Surulere, Adeseye also stated that the agency was contacted in the early hours of the morning, and in response, deployed fire crews that put out the fire and ensured that no life was lost. The statement read, “The Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service has doused the Fire at the Leisure Mall on Adeniran Ogunsanya Street, Surulere, Lagos. “The fire which was reported at 2.41 am had Sari-Iganmu and Ajegunle Fire Crews of the agency in attendance to forestall a disaster in the prestigious mall with heavy smoke billowing the sky as a result of the audio-visual sound production materials of the Cinema. “The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, it was however confined to the first floor by the right wing of the mall where it originated from.” Adeseye disclosed that men of the Federal Fire service were part of the responders on the scene, adding that both operations were concluded amid 15 other emergencies. “The Federal Fire Service, Ojuelegba Station was also in attendance and no injury or death was recorded. Both operations have been concluded amid 15 emergencies recorded between 8am and the time of this release,” she added.