The news of the introduction of 4,000 text characters by Twitter has been received with unpleasant reactions by users protesting the character increase. The users expressed displeasure at the new word length announced by the micro-blogging site on Wednesday. According to the update posted on Twitter Blue, the change would allow users to express themselves in one tweet instead of creating threads. However, some users insist that threads are better especially when a person is expressing different thoughts. This change is one of the various tweaks that Twitter has undergone since Elon Musk bought the social media platform in October 2022. The 4,000 text character change negates the vision the founder of the platform, Jack Dorsey, who said years ago that ‘brevity and essence’ were some of the distinct features of the site. This update exclusively available to only Twitter Blue subscribers in the US for now, Twitter said. A user, @resmaliks argued that “Twitter is increasing the character limit on tweets from 280 to 4000 for Twitter Blue subscribers as an alternative to threads. Threads would still be preferred by many creators, as they produce more structured and outstanding content.” Another user, @WOLF_Financial asked, “When will we get the full rebrand to Facebook? @DCLBlogger, tweeted, “Twitter works coz it’s short and sharp content. Tweets work fine.
Threads work great. Not sure why the need to change things” @kikorustia insisted that “Threads allow you to divide and segment your thoughts/opinions across separate tweets, and allows your followers to react and even share the specific ones they agree or like the most.” @DennisPerkins5 said, “You twits are just flailing desperately at this point. Also, I will block anyone who sends me a thousand-word tweet. @JustinWolfers said, “this tweet pretty much disproves its own thesis, as I got bored reading halfway and realized that few messages need >280 characters.’” @ArtsyMarxist announced that “If any of you tweet something longer than like 300 characters it’s just not getting read straight up.” Recall that previously under the ownership of its founder, Dorsey, Twitter had moved from 140 text character to 280 characters in 2017; at the time Dorsey described the change as a ‘small change, but a big move’ for the social media platform. Commenting on the 280-character update, Dorsey tweeted that he was, “Proud of how thoughtful the team has been in solving a real problem people have when trying to tweet. And at the same time maintaining our brevity, speed, and essence!”