Environment stakeholders were worried that climate change has not been accorded deserving attention in the ongoing political campaigns, an EnviroNews report stated. According to the report titled “General elections: Whither climate change in their manifestos?”, checks showed that environmental issues first emerged in political discourse in the 1970s. Efforts to mitigate environmental disasters have been prominent on the international political agenda since the 1990s. It stated, “As candidates intensify campaigns for various elective positions in the build-up to 2023 general elections in Nigeria, concern has been raised as to what extent climate change has featured on the soapbox. “According to environment experts, Nigeria has had its own share of climate change impacts over the years, ranging from flooding, irregular rainfalls, drought to heat spells. They said the 2022 flood disaster is a testimony to the reality of climate change in the country. The disaster ravaged several states causing over 600 deaths, displacing millions of people, and washing away hundreds of farmlands.” African Development Bank Group in its economic outlook for Nigeria stated, “Climate change’s impact is seen in crop yields declining by seven per cent in the short term (2006–35) and by 25 per cent in the long term (by 2050). “Projected increases in annual maximum temperature of 3–4°C between 2050 and 2070 could further undermine agricultural productivity and cause greater water stress. “Already, shortages of water and grazing land are generating communal conflicts. Nigeria is 73 on the 2021 Global Conflict Risk Index.” The Executive Director of the Global Initiative for Food Security and Ecosystem Preservation, David Michael, said a review of manifestoes of various parties showed an under-representation of climate change in the 2023 campaign. He said, “GIFSEP had launched an awareness campaign on climate change in several states to arouse the interest of politicians and the general public on the impact of climate change. It would not augur well if the political class in climate change-vulnerable countries such as Nigeria continued to ignore the challenge it posed.” Michael noted that it would be a grievous mistake if the country elects climate change denials in the 2023 general elections, adding that climate change issues were too important to be left in the hands of denials. He added, “It is the defining issue of today’s world that is why we are calling on citizens, especially those communities impacted by climate to ensure that they collect their PVCs. They should look beyond empty campaign promises and other forms of inducement to vote for candidates that have a concrete climate action plan as those voted into positions of authority have the power to shape a clean, green, low-carbon future for posterity through climate change-friendly policies.” In the same vein, the Programme Manager of GIFSEP, Ibrahim Joseph, noted that politicians vying for public offices have not made any commitment to climate change, despite being just a few weeks to the general elections.