The Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ahmed Audi, on Thursday said the reward for hard work was a promotion, and the outcome of the promotion was more responsibilities. Audi said this at the decoration ceremony of the newly promoted senior officers of the Corps in Abuja. Among the 53 promoted senior officers, eight Commandants were promoted to the rank of Assistant Commandant Generals, and 45 Deputy Commandants were promoted to the rank of Commandants. The CG congratulated the newly promoted officers of the Corps and charged them to recommit themselves to the ideals of NSCDC whose scope is to protect critical infrastructure, assets and save lives. Explaining that the promotion is not an opportunity for the senior officials to rest on their positions, he advised others who had to partake in the promotion exercise to remain patient and keep working hard. Audi stated “Let me congratulate those that have gotten their promotions. This promotion was based on merit. Therefore, even if you are decorated today, and later, found wanting, the Board can issue a circular to withdraw your promotion. This promotion shows that the Corps is trying to streamline all its policies on promotion. “This promotion was given to deserving officers who have worked very hard and satisfied all conditions given to the Commission. Therefore, to whom much is given, much is expected. It is said that promotion comes from God. To those that sat for the promotion exams and were not able to get the promotion, please know that it was not deliberate. “It is expected that promotion at this level is very key and sensitive. You all must demonstrate a high level of loyalty. Loyalty is not 99 but 100 per cent. At this level, you must be ready to mentor junior officers.” The CG, however, advised the promoted officers not to lobby for their postings. He said “No need for you to lobby for your posting. If you have faith in God and myself and with your good records and dedication, God will post you naturally. If you lobby too much, you might end up getting into more trouble.” Speaking on behalf of the promoted officers, the spokesperson of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu, said “I want to thank the Commandant General who has made this possible. And also, the management of the NSCDC. “I have always been very dutiful and hardworking and this will only motivate me for more hard work, and dedication to the Corps. “Whatever capacity I find myself in, I am going to do my best to lift the name of the Corps and sustain it.”