Frank Onwumere has denied writing a petition over an alleged misappropriation of N2 billion given by the presidential candidate of Labour party, Peter Obi, to churches under the umbrella of the Christian Association of Nigeria. Onwumere said in a statement on Sunday that he never authored such petition and did not authorise anyone to do so on his behalf. He said, “My attention has been drawn to a petition with the above subject matter purportedly written by one Pastor Frank Onwumere of Dominion Center International. “I wish to use this medium to inform the public, my associates, friends and family, that I, Hon. Pastor Frank Onwumere, did not author the said petition and did not authorise anybody to do so on my behalf. “I am not a member of Dominion Centre International and have never had any relationship with the organisation. The author of the petition is not known to me. “Please be assured that it is not in my character to malign any person or institution, let alone revered religious bodies.” The PUNCH reported that the Christian Association of Nigeria on Sunday distanced itself from the purported N2 billion allegedly given by Obi to churches under its umbrella. While urging the public to disregard the purported petition as its content was not only untrue but also malicious, CAN said it would probe the source of the letter in the public interest. CAN described the letter as malicious and untrue, but warned those peddling the falsehood to desist from such act because they were capable of defaming innocent people and revered religious institutions as well as breaching public peace. The President of CAN, Archbishop Daniel Okoh, made the clarification in a statement titled, “Re: Petition on the misappropriation of N2 billion given by the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr Peter Obi, to churches under the umbrella of CAN.” He said, “The attention of the national leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria has been drawn to a purported letter currently in circulation on social media, alleging that a certain sum of N2bn was given by Obi to Churches under the umbrella of CAN. “I use this medium to categorically state that the so-called letter of petition reportedly signed by one Pastor Frank Onwumere and addressed to my office is illogical and can best be described as a failed attempt to drag the apex Christian body into the politics of 2023.” The CAN president said the association would investigate the matter.