Erstwhile Chairman of New Nigeria Peoples Party in Gombe State, Maikano Umar, has provided reasons for dumping the main opposition party for the governing All Progressives Congress. Umar made the disclosure on Friday shortly after his pictures with Governor Muhammadu Yahaya, went viral that he has defected ahead of the forthcoming elections to support the party in retaining power. The PUNCH earlier reported that the NNPP recently emerged the major opposition with the defection of four lawmakers in the state House of Assembly from the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party. Disclosing his reasons in a letter obtained by our correspondent, Umar blamed it on the lack of direction by his party and its governorship candidate, Khamisu Mailantarki, saying “I wish to formally announce my resignation from the New Nigeria Peoples Party and my position as the Gombe State Chairman of the party with effect from today, 3rd January, 2023. “In light of the above, I hereby formally announce my decision to join the All Progressives Congress. “My decision to join the APC is due to lack of political focus, leadership direction and clear blueprint by the governorship candidate, Hon. Khamisu Mailantarki as to how he will move Gombe State forward and address its challenges if elected.” The former party chairman described the campaign promises of his erstwhile candidate as rhetorics, stressing that the All Progressives Congress is a party for patriotic, and focused personalities. “I cannot be where rhetorics and lies take the centre stage at campaigns and political engagements rather than speaking on the roadmap and blueprints to addressing issues of governance and development. “I have come to the realisation that Governor Inuwa Yahaya is a focused and visionary leader championing the cause of development in Gombe State, providing good governance and democracy dividends. “As against the NNPP, APC is a party for reasonable and patriotic people focusing on development rather than hoodwinking the electorate with rhetorics and lies. I will provide further insights in due course,” Umar added.