The Peoples Democratic Party has taken a swipe at the Tinubu-Shettima presidential campaign council for defending the Director of Special Projects and New media of the campaign council, Femi Fani-Kayode. Recall that The PUNCH reported how Fani-Kayode was grilled by the Department of State Services on Monday and Wednesday for allegedly making a social media post, accusing Atiku and some army generals of plotting to stage a coup. However, he has expressed regret over his comment. While Fani-Kayode was being grilled by the DSS, he was also invited by the Nigeria Police Force over an issue alike, which compelled the Tinubu campaign to call on the police in a statement. Reacting to the development, Phrank Shaibu, the Special Assistant, Public Communications to the presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, in a statement on Wednesday, applauded the police for broadening the scope of the investigation. Shaibu called on the police not to be intimidated by the Tinubu campaign organisation, insisting that the allegations made by Fani-Kayode were too weighty to be ignored. He stated, “We commend the police for widening the scope of investigation by inviting Fani-Kayode over claims of army generals meeting with Atiku with a view to toppling a democratically elected government. “However, as we had stated earlier, Fani-Kayode is not acting alone. The defence put up by Mr Bayo Onanuga on behalf of Tinubu’s campaign organisation shows that Fani-Kayode has not been acting alone. “It is obvious that other members of Tinubu’s campaign have information about this supposed coup. They all need to be invited so they can shed more light on the coup.” The media aide told the police not to leave any stone unturned as the probe deepens, adding that Fani-Kayode must not be treated as a sacred cow because he is a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress. He pointed out that the police must not just invite Fani-Kayode but must also grill him with a view to prosecuting him if he is unable to produce the names of the purported coup plotters. He added, “Fani-Kayode should not just be given a slap on the wrist. He should be prosecuted if he cannot produce the names of the coup plotters. “On July 7, 2022, Fani-Kayode similarly accused soldiers of complicity in the Abuja-Kaduna train attack and the attack on Kuje prison where hundreds of terrorists were released. “Till date, Fani-Kayode has refused to reveal the identities of the soldiers involved. These are allegations that are too weighty to be ignored. The police and the DSS must, thus, dig deeper for the sake of national security,” he said.