The Federal Government, on Thursday, said it was currently implementing measures to ensure the generation of 9,000 megawatts of electricity from renewable energy sources. It disclosed this at the Rural Electrification Agency management and board retreat in Abuja, stressing that renewable energy from solar, wind, hydro, among other sources, was the solution to bridge the electricity gap across the country quickly. “This why we plan to continue to optimise it while drawing in quality investments and private sector participation in the space,” the Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jedy-Agba, stated in his remarks at the retreat. He added, “This administration’s efforts to improve energy access through on- and off-grid electrification solutions are commendable. “We must not lose sight of Vision 30:30:30, aimed at raising the generation capacity to 30,000MW by 2030, of which 30 per cent (9,000MW) will be from renewable sources.” Jedy-Agba said the REA was pivotal to this vision, as it had critical roles it must continue to play in the global conversation on energy transition and off-grid electrification. He expressed confidence in the REA management and board, but noted that beyond the quality exchange of knowledge and optimisation of expertise, a healthy and productive collaboration was desirable for the agency. “I commend you for organising this retreat to help strengthen the agency and I am confident that by the end of this exercise, the REA will be reinvigorated and repositioned for a more significant impact beyond its current scorecard,” the minister stated. On his part, the Managing Director, REA, Ahmad Salihijo, said the aim of the retreat was for institutional strengthening and sustainable development, where the management conveyed its plans for the agency and discussed with staff on the challenges faced in the implementation of projects. He tasked employees of the firm to build on the successes recorded by the agency and implored them to be innovative in delivering their functions.