The All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has said those behind the naira and fuel scarcity in the country want to create a scenario that could lead to the postponement of the general election. Tinubu stated this at the presidential campaign rally at Ekiti Parapo Pavilion in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, on Friday. “They are hoarding naira so that you can be angry and fight. They want confusion so that the election can be postponed. What they want is an interim government but we are wiser than them. We will not fight. Any rat that eats rat poison will end up killing itself,” he said. The former Lagos State governor told the mammoth crowd of supporters that his mission in the presidential was to give them a fresh beginning. “I am in the race for the betterment of the people. If it is what I will eat and what I need personally, God has provided for me. I am in this race to make life good and better for you too. “Ekiti people are well educated people. They are well read; they don’t joke with education. But it is not good to finish schooling and not get a job. So, we shall provide jobs for you. “On that day, we will trek to the polling booths to cast our votes. Your polling booths are not far from where you live. So, you should walk down to cast your votes,” Tinubu said. In a statement signed by his media aide, Tunde Rahman, promised to make a difference in governance if given the opportunity. “I believe each and every Nigerian is entitled to a life of dignity and happiness, free from the fear of hunger, poverty, violence and hopelessness. I believe we can do better as a nation.  I believe we must do better. History calls, destiny calls,  greatness calls! “I came here today to offer you my best and assure you that I will always work for you. Take a look at my plan and ideas for the nation. You will like them because they were developed out of concern and hope for your welfare and for your future. “Parents, don’t you want your children to enjoy a better life? Young people, don’t you want a nation where you can realize your dreams and also be able to care for your parents, yet nurture and have children of your own? “Join us, elect us so that the government will work to ensure that you have decent jobs, that farmers make a good living, that enough schools and clinics exist.  We will expand industry, assure your peace and safety, make sure that our nation is well fed and without hunger and we shall renew your hope in Nigeria and in your future.” On his plans for Ekiti State, Tinubu promised to focus on development of the agricultural sector, with special focus on mechanized farming. He also promised to make the state an exportation hub for its agricultural products, bringing more revenue to the state.