The Enugu State Peoples Democratic Party Campaign Council has denied the allegation of forgery of the National Youth Service Corps certificate against its governorship candidate, Dr Peter Mbah. It described the allegation as “the conjecture of an indolent opposition and the last kick of a dying horse.” The campaign council said the opposition in Enugu had since come to terms with the fact that they had no prospects in the coming election and therefore resorted to smear campaigns. The Director of Public Communications and spokesperson for the Enugu State PDP Campaign Council, Nana Ogbodo, said, this in a statement titled, “There is no truth whatsoever to the allegation.” The statement read partly, “Our attention has been drawn to a press conference by a faceless group in Abuja, which claimed to have conducted a check at the NYSC under the Freedom of Information Act 2011, which purportedly showed that our governorship candidate, Dr Peter Mbah, submitted a forged NYSC certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission. “We make bold to say that Dr Peter Mbah was duly mobilised for the one-year mandatory national youth service in Lagos in 2002, duly completed the exercise, and was issued with an NYSC discharge certificate. “We have equally observed that the said malicious press statement was not signed by any official of the faceless group. “However, we are taking steps in accordance with the law to bring the perpetrators to justice.” According to the campaign council, it was not the first failed attempt by the opposition to discredit the PDP governorship candidate. “Rather than present and market their manifestos to the Enugu electorate, they had earlier forged court processes and also filed frivolous and malicious lawsuits, claiming that Dr Mbah had entered into a plea of guilt and plea bargain, hence not qualifying to stand for election. “We call on the Nigerian public to disregard this latest perfidy as the umpteenth mischief by an indolent opposition and the last kick of a dying horse,” it said. 