The newly inducted estate surveyors and valuers have been asked to avoid all tendencies capable of undermining professional ethics in the overall interest of the people and the country at large. A statement said the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, and Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria gave this advice at the 46th induction ceremony of newly registered estate surveyors and valuers in Abuja. The minister, who was represented by Mustapha Umar, urged the new members to uphold professionalism and be good ambassadors of the profession anywhere. Fashola, who commended the leadership of the board for its doggedness and commitment to raising the bar of excellence of realtors in the country, urged it not to let down its guard in regulating the industry. While noting that professionalism was the way to go, he urged all newly inducted estate surveyors and valuers to be wary of engaging in any act that could impact on the integrity of the profession and professionalism in the country. The Chairman of the board, Mr Gersh Henshaw, called on the inductees not to compromise standards in the discharge of their duties. He added that the instruments of practice such as stamps and seal handed over to them were given to hold trust for the board. Henshaw said, “I assumed the mantle of leadership of the board of 5,055 persons was so registered by the board. “With two induction ceremonies, we have increased the number to 5,651; and will today in this epoch-making occasion add 648 persons to the register in the first time since the establishment of the board in 1975 that the board has Inducted the highest number of newly registered persons in one induction ceremony. “As we hand over to you the instruments of practice, which are our stamps and seal, please, be reminded that the instruments are given to you to hold in trust for the board. They remain properties of the board and could be withdrawn from you if you practice contrary to prescribed rules and regulations.” He added, “We are in a dynamic world with fast-changing technology and ways of doing things. I, therefore, urge you to embrace continuing professional development.  Continuing professional development is key to your relevance in practice.” “The board has even made attainment of a minimum of 20 credit hours of participation in approved mandatory continuing professional development programme a condition and precedent to annual renewal of practicing license “