The  Senator representing Enugu East, Dr Chimaroke Nnamani, has described his expulsion by the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party as a nullity, adding that the Senator Iyorchia Ayu-led NWC has no powers to suspend or expel him from the party. Senator Nnamani stated that the Ayu-led NWC did not follow due process and strict compliance with the provisions of the PDP Constitution and therefore lacked the powers to suspend or expel him as a member of the National Assembly. The National Working Committee of the PDP had expelled the former governor of Enugu State, the son of a former governor of Ekiti State, John Fayose; and five others for alleged anti-party activities. Nnamani’s expulsion, following the “recommendation of the National Disciplinary Committee and pursuant to sections 58 and 59 (1)(g) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017),” was contained in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, on Friday in Abuja. The statement by the party read in part, “The NWC of the PDP at its 566th meeting today, Friday, February 10, 2023, approved the expulsion of the following individuals from the party for anti-party activities and other grave offences in violation of the constitution of the PDP. “Those expelled from the party are Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, Enugu State; and Chris Ogbu, Imo State. Others are Ajijola Oladimeji, Ekiti Central; Olayinka Olalere, Ekiti Central; Fayose John, Ekiti Central I; Akerele Oluyinka, Ekiti North I; and Emiola Jennifer, Ekiti South II. But Nnamani, in a letter to the PDP NWC  through his Counsel Olusegun Jolaawo, SAN, it was evident based on Articles 57(7) and 59(3) of the PDP constitution that no organ of the party, including the NWC, had the competence to entertain any question of discipline against him, except the National Executive Committee of the party. “Quite apart from the obvious and undeniable fact that the purported proceeding of the National Working Committee of your party held on 20 January 2023 and the decision reached there at, suspending our client from the party is null and void, as our client was neither invited to the meeting nor given the opportunity to be heard before the decision against him was taken. Similarly, Fayose’s son, who is the PDP House of Representatives candidate for Ekiti Central I, dismissed his expulsion from the party by the NWC, saying the matter was already in court. “As regards the suspension, we already took the party to court. The court matter is simple. It is not within the jurisdiction of the court to suspend a candidate whose name has been submitted to INEC. “We (affected candidates) approached the court on the issue of the suspension. The matter is in court. The party had been served and of course; the court restrained the party. So, if the party chose to still go ahead with expulsion, it is between the party and the court of law.” Also, Olayinka, who corroborated Fayose, said that the party NWC’s action, apart from being contempt of court, would not affect the candidates.