A member of the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Tolu Bankole, has labelled the party’s presidential candidate Bola Tinubu as a patriot following his outburst over the lingering fuel crisis and the scarcity of the new naira notes. Bankole, who expressed his concerns in a statement in Abuja on Friday, disclosed that the former governor of Lagos State had shown that he is more interested in the wellbeing of the masses than being politically correct. According to the national leader of People Living with Disabilities, loving one’s country may inevitably puts one in opposition with those who run it. He said, “The strong position expressed by our party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a show of commitment to a better Nigeria and her endless possibilities. “True patriotism implies a deep love for one’s country that not only desires the best for one’s fellow countrymen but also demands that the country should pursue its aims with honesty and empathy. “He has displayed an ineffable love unequalled in the political history of the world. Asiwaju chose to empathise with the masses that have been subjected to untold hardship. The easier option by most party faithfuls would be to say yes or maintain silence to all government programs no matter how discomforting for political correctness. The ability to confront and speak out against some policies of government considered to be anti-masses by Asiwaju should be applauded by all. “Selflessness is exhibited at the most critical moment. Tinubu is not desperate to be President. “No one puts it better than leadership expert, Jim Rohn when he said: ‘The challenge of leadership is to be strong, but not rude; be kind, but not weak; be bold, but not a bully; be thoughtful, but not lazy; be humble, but not timid; have humour but without folly’. “In the face of the unabating artificial queues nationwide in fuel stations and regrettably at bank ATMs across the country for Nigerians to withdraw their hard earned money; Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has demonstrated the rarest of leadership qualities which is empathy. “Patriots never keep mute in situations were masses are suffering and traumatised. This singular act of Tinubu, even at this critical stage of our political experience is a clear testimony of his unparalleled leadership. It is therefore obvious that Tinubu is pro-masses and a true friend of Nigeria and Nigerians. “Tinubu presidency will indeed be pro-masses, prosperous and progressive. Therefore, I want to appeal to all electorates in the forthcoming February 25th presidential election to cast their votes for Tinubu-Shettima because Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is Nigeria’s next president. “This demonstration of pure heart, love for Nigerians and commitment to improve welfare and well-being of all Nigerians will drive his Renewed Hope agenda to tame insecurity; tackle unemployment and turn the economy around for shared prosperity.”