No fewer than two persons were reported injured at Eagle Square, venue of the rally of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the Federal Capital Territory on Saturday. The first victim was a middle aged woman who fell while leaving her seat in the stand to greet a friend. An official of the FCT Emergency Management Agency, who craved anonymity, told our reporter that she was brought to their ambulance bleeding through her nose and was treated. “She did not sustain any serious injury. We treated her and allowed her to go after we ascertained she was alright,” he said. The second victim allegedly sustained a fracture while scrambling for a plate of food at the venue. After administering first aid on him, the FCT emergency rescue team of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said they were shocked to hear him and other grassroots supporters, saying they would seek alternative treatment for the fracture. The coordinator of the NSCDC rescue officials expressed shock when she said, “I have not seen this kind of thing before. He and his other friends just put up a show and said they won’t allow him to go with the ambulance.” Meanwhile, the look of despair and fatigue on the faces of anxious supporters at Eagle Square was a summary of the rally in Abuja where Tinubu did not turn up at the venue until 7.25pm, after over five hours into the campaign. The APC candidate arrived the venue in the company of his running mate, Senator Kashim Shettima and the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. The PUNCH earlier reported that the APC candidate was slated to feature in two political rallies in both Kebbi and the Federal Capital Territory on Saturday. In a phone chat with our correspondent, the Chief Spokesman of the APC presidential campaign council, Festus Keyamo, told our correspondent that while the Kebbi rally was expected to begin from 11.00am to 1.00pm, the Abuja campaign would commence from 2.00pm to 5.00pm. However, as of 7.00pm, clearly five hours past the commencement time, the poster boy of the APC had not arrived the venue. Sources told our reporter that the former Lagos State governor left his campaign ground in Kebbi late and might not arrive on time for the FCT rally. Prior to his arrival, the disc jockeys and comperes did their best to engage and entertain the supporters at the carnival-like rally in vain. Despite screaming into the microphone at intervals that “the presidential candidate is on his way” a number of supporters were strolling out of the venue disappointed. Policemen, immigration officers, private security guards were seen mounting guards at major entrances to the campaign ground. A horde of support groups wearing colourful ‘Aso Ebi’, T-shirts and caps customised with Tinubu’s ‘Renewed Hope’ marched and danced around waving banners carrying his campaign picture and other APC candidates vying for other positions at the 2023 election. Petty food and drinks vendors were also spotted making brisk business while the wait for the party presidential candidate continues. Among some notable dignitaries at the venue were Speaker of Nigeria’s House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Tinubu’s wife, Senator Oluremi; wife of the APC vice presidential candidate, Hajia Nana Shettima; Chairperson of the Niger Delta Development Commission Board, Lauretta Onochie; spouse of the Governor of Borno, Dr Falmata Zulum; Minister of State for the FCT, Ramatu Tijanni; Secretary of the APC and other members of the APC PCC Also in attendance were Nollywood artistes such as Saidi Balogun, James Faleke, Abimbola Akintola and Zack Orji Gbajabiamila himself arrived at the Eagle Square venue at exactly 5.50pm, about four hours late.