Ahead of the elections, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, has said the hope of Nigerians as well as countries of the world are on security agents in the country for the successful conduct of the polls. The presidential and National Assembly elections are billed to hold on February 25 while the governorship and House of Assembly elections are scheduled for March 11. There are fears that the insecurity ravaging many parts of the country could constitute a threat to the elections. Speaking in Abuja on Saturday at the 2023 International Military Sports Council Day Run, held annually to commemorate the end of World War II, Irabor charged the security agents to do all they could to ensure a peaceful and safe environment for the elections. Irabor, who was represented by the Chief of Defence Policy and Plans, Air Vice Marshal Jackson Yusuf, said, “Today, our brave men and women of the armed forces and other security agencies can tell the world with pride of their daily successes in countering insurgency and other security challenges that have in recent times bedeviled the nation’s security landscape. I, however, urge you all to sustain the current momentum. “Also, you all know the elections are coming, the nation and countries of the world are looking up to us as members of the armed forces and security agencies to play our role to ensure the elections are held in a peaceful environment. I urge us to live up to our constitutional responsibilities.” Meanwhile, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, has directed his men to abstain from human rights violations while going about their duties. He also warned them against taking laws into their hands in any given circumstance, adding that such an act could bring the service to disrepute. Speaking during the 2023 First Quarter Route March of the service on Saturday, Gambo said without having a harmonious relationship with the populace, their duty to the country was meaningless. He stated, “I urge you to continue to be law-abiding citizens and maintain a cordial and improved relationship with our civilian populace and relevant stakeholders. “Similarly, I wish to remind you all that the political activities in the country for the forthcoming general election have reached a climax, hence, I urge you to maintain neutrality and be apolitical.”