The presidential candidate of the African Action Congress, Omoyele Sowore, has said that the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu, must “be an activist” if he must lead a free and fair election in the coming days. The AAC candidate while speaking during the meeting organised by INEC with political parties in Abuja, urged the Commission chairman to come clean regarding the state of the forthcoming elections. He observed the challenges which the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria was capable of causing to the electoral process, as a result of the scarcity of cash. “This is the time to be an activist yourself,” Sowore told Yakubu. “In our last meeting, I proposed very strongly that before we grant the CBN the opportunity to handle sensitive materials, we should meet with the board of the CBN. “That was my position at the last meeting. It was as if I was seeing into the future, but some (people) did not agree with me,” Sowore said. Sowore said it could not be denied that people don’t have money to spend, even when they have to travel to vote. Saying he was also affected by the crisis, he said, “According to INEC rules, I can’t vote in Abuja, I have to travel to Ondo State to go and vote.” “There is a monetary crisis in this country and no matter what they are doing to assure you of protection, they have no power to protect you. “You should worry about the Nigerian people out there who, as I was coming this morning, were queuing up in every bank available in the country. “The fact there is no petrol or gasoline to move your materials around should bother you,” he told the INEC boss. He said the whole country was looking up to INEC and Yakubu would be blamed if the election failed. “Wear the garment of your conscience. If you feel you cannot hold the election, can’t cry out now. “You have a historical duty to make this election work, if you think you are being sabotaged, cry out now,” Sowore added. The PUNCH reports that INEC has however dismissed reports that it might postpone the forthcoming elections. The electoral body also took to its social media platforms on Monday to debunk a publication claiming that INEC might postpone the forthcoming elections by one or two weeks. Telling Nigerians to disregard the fake publication, INEC said the 2023 elections would hold as scheduled. “The Commission will not and is not contemplating postponing the 2023 general election. Nigerians should disregard it,” INEC said.  