The Federal Executive Council, on Wednesday, approved a total of N28bn for the power projects, particularly those to be implemented by the Transmission Company of Nigeria. The projects include the “reconductoring” of at least 1,022 kilometres of lines on the national grid, costing N26.6bn. The second project involves the procurement of 20 Transformer ton analysers which will cost N1.4bn. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents after this week’s Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja. Aliyu said the reconductoring was necessary to avoid the sagging of transmission cables since the old ones are heavier, weaker and now pose a hazard. He said, “The first memo that I presented is to seek approval for the award of contract for the reconductoring in 132KV single and double circuit transmission lines in the following locations across the country. It is a memo for the Transmission Company of Nigeria.” They include a 173km Kumbotso-Hadejia line traversing Kano and Jigawa states (132KV single cycle line). 105 km Kumbotso-Kankiya, crossing Kano and Katsina (132KV single cycle line). Aliyu said the project includes an offshore component of $11.19m and an onshore component of N421.49m. The project also includes a 90km reconductoring of Benin-Irrua lines and the 72km Irrua-Okpella line, 48km Okpella-Okene, 58km Okene-Ajaokuta, traversing Edo and Kogi states (132-line single cycle). He said the project includes an offshore cost of $12.81m and an onshore component of N630.59m. Others include the 394km Gombe-Biu-Damboa-Maiduguri line at $18.37m and N590.81m; the eight-kilometre Port Harcourt main-Port Harcourt town, 10km Alaoji-Aba town; 165km Osogbo-Offa-Omuaran-Gammo-Ilorin; 72km Onitsha-Ojiriba costing $10.76m and N504.18m as offshore and onshore components. “The total amount for these four components is N53.13m, plus the onshore component of N2.13bn. These are existing lines being upgraded, the wires will be removed and new ones put in place. “The difference between the new and old wires is that the new ones will be more efficient. They carry more load than the old wires. These ones are lighter and can carry more electricity. “So it will improve the efficiency and the challenges that we’re facing of constant tripping of the breakers due to overloading of these lines will be tremendously reduced. All the projects will be completed within 12 months,” the Minister explained. Aliyu said the second memo approved by the Council was for the contract to procure 20 transformer tons ratio analysers for the TCN. “This equipment is used for testing transformers. They are state-of-the-art equipment used to test the reliability of transformers under switch gears. “So the total costs of N1.4bn and the contractor is MSSRS B Field Nigeria Limited and is going to supply within four months,” he added.