The Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja has matriculated a total of 6,387  National Diploma and Higher National Diploma students into the institution. This consists of 4,786 National Diploma I and 1,601 Higher National Diploma I. The Rector of the Polytechnic, Dr Salisu Ogbo, disclosed this on Thursday during the 30th matriculation ceremony of the institution. In a speech at the ceremony, the Rector told the matriculants that the institution has zero tolerance for all forms of social vices, such as cultism, gun-running, examination malpractice, alcoholism, unhealthy social gatherings, cyber crimes, incitement to violence, gangsterism, misuse and distribution of school property, stealing, and indecent dressing. While warning that indiscipline, poor academic performance, unruly behaviour and insubordination are highly forbidden in the institution, Dr Ogbo said the Polytechnic will not award its certificate to students who are deficient in character and in learning. “Act of cultism is completely forbidden on our campus. All the visible and invisible security architectures of the Polytechnic placed in so many strategic places have preventive mechanisms to deal with cultists, their sympathisers and sponsors. “Students are advised to stay safe and free from all cult-related lifestyles. “Students are also advised to report any move intended to intimidate, lure them into or them in cultism from any quarters to the Security Unit,” he warned. Dr Ogbo reiterated that the Polytechnic does not tolerate any act of religious fanaticism or religious intolerance of any form adding that, the ban on all tribal association on campus still stand. According to him, the salient mission of the Polytechnic is to build an environment that is conducive to the group and independent learning experiences. “Our hope and desire are that you will be the principal beneficiaries of this slogan. “We are keen on training students that will represent the pride and good image of the institution, and I have no doubt that this current set will play a significant role. “We will continue to work towards making the Polytechnic environment more friendly for you to learn and ensure your personal growth and development. “We shall also continue to ensure that our graduates are responsible citizens who will contribute to the development of our dear country, Nigeria. “Our unique programmes are intended to mould you the right way, with a positive mental attitude and skills to enable you to compete with your contemporaries in the larger world. “Our efforts are therefore geared towards delivering high quality, enduring and independent education that will stand the test of time. “Here at the Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja and our Itakpe campus, we have recorded notable milestones in structural and systemic development which are geared towards making learning in the Polytechnic worthwhile. “Our drive towards achieving infrastructural development is true evidence of our action which again is student-centred.” He explained that as an institution, they create a learning environment that enables students to explore possibilities beyond simply sitting for examinations and acquiring paper qualifications.