The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has been projected to win the February 25 presidential election. In an opinion poll conducted by a team of data analysts, Tinubu is said to be rated higher than candidates from other political parties based on four key variables of political geography, religion, resources, and class. A statement by the organisers of the poll read, “By our projection above, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is expected to win the February 25th Presidential Election. “This report, being the outcome of an eight-week opinion poll, conducted by a team of our data analysts spanning through a period of eight weeks pointed to the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the potential winner. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu rated higher than other candidates from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Labour Party (LP) Mr Peter Obi, and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, using four key variables: political geography, Religion, Resources, and Class.” According to the statement, the poll was conducted “via a combination of online and phone surveys. Our online surveys were administered through a secure web platform, and phone surveys conducted by trained staff, who are proficient in the three major Nigerian languages of Igbo, Hausa and Yoruba. In both cases, the surveys were designed to ensure that the results were accurate and unbiased. “We also focused on areas, such as the spread of the political parties, the incumbency factors in states, religion and the personality of the candidates.” The statement added, “We also identify in the course of our online poll the role of social media influencers, religious leaders, professional organisations, and the young population of voters and how it can impact on the victory of each of the leading candidates.” The statement, while acknowledging previous polls that put other candidates ahead of Tinubu, alleged that earlier polls relied on data based on manipulation and sectional polling. It stated, “While we acknowledge the reports of various opinion polls that have put some other candidates as the likely winner of the February 25th presidential election, we wish to state that data alone does not speak for itself significantly when such data is based on manipulation and sectional polling. The result of every data must be put into context, including understanding the people, culture, pattern, geographical spread of the platform, and historical antecedents. “In conclusion, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s projected victory is solidly premised on the fact that coming from a region with the second largest voting population in the country, he enjoyed the widest home support from his geopolitical zone, where even political influencers in the major opposition political party are routing for his victory at the poll.”