The Digital Cooperation Organisation, the international organisation to promote digital prosperity for all has called for an open collaboration among nations to bridge digital divide. A statement said the organisation gave the ministerial declaration at its second general assembly in Riyadh. The statement said the DCO ministerial call for action, which was issued on behalf of all 13 member states, recognised the crucial role that the digital economy played in shaping a more equitable and thriving future. It called for increased international dialogue to identify and promote successful approaches, and impactful initiatives that would empower nations to create sustainable, inclusive and equitable growth of the digital economy. The statement said the general assembly, which was the first full in-person gathering of the DCO, had delegations from the member states, DCO observer partners, and other international stakeholders in the digital economy. The assembly was also attended by the Minister of State for Information and Communication Technology, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, Zunaid Palak; and the Minister of Communications and Information Technology, State of Qatar, Mohammd Almanni, as guests of the DCO. The DCO called for international cooperation to coordinate efforts and develop sustainable solutions that were specifically tailored to address four major concerns such as policies and regulations, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises digitalisation, digital skills and education, and digital transformation. It stated, “Recognising the importance of ensuring continuity and efficiency of the DCO’s operations, the assembly approved the establishment of an executive committee, consisting of representatives from the Kingdom of Bahrain, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the Sultanate of Oman, with a representative from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as the Chairperson until 2030. The committee will help streamline decision-making at DCO.” The Secretary-General, DCO, Ms Deemah Yahya, said, “There is an urgent need to modernise and harmonise digital policies and regulations, support MSMEs, take advantage of the cross-border nature of the digital economy and reduce barriers to access new markets, grow and create new opportunities. “Presently, around 36 per cent of the world’s population, or approximately 2.7 billion people, do not have access to the Internet. This substantial divide separates those with the means and abilities to participate in the digital economy from those without. “We must take collective action to unleash the full potential of the digital age by equipping everyone with the digital skills they need. This can be through a combination of formal education systems, informal training programs, and civil society initiatives that promote continuous learning and upskilling. We must invest in building and enhancing digital skills and reap the rewards for generations to come.” The one-day general assembly included several strategic announcements around the expansion of the DCO and aligning the organisation to accelerate its mission in the future. According to the statement, “The DCO adopted the new organisation bylaws that will streamline the operations of the organisation and effectively supersede the previously approved governance guidebook of 2021. “The DCO approved the formation of a new initiative to empower MSMEs: the STRIDE Association. This initiative will play a pivotal role in catalysing the growth of MSMEs and start-ups within and between member states. In addition, the association will act as a facilitator between the public and the private sectors to make available the needed insights and interventions.” 