The Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, has said next Saturday’s election offers Nigerians a lifetime opportunity to reset and reboot Nigeria in all ramifications including leadership and governance, security of life and properties, economic and political freedom. Obi insisted that Nigeria is not bereft of the required human capital necessary for good leadership, but only “bedeviled by the impunity of a few individuals who have perfected the dubious act of state capture.” The Labour Party candidate stated these during a zoom meeting with supporters, adding that issues of national interest needed to be addressed urgently, and that the process would start in earnest on February 25. He said, “Fellow Nigerians, we are down to crunch time – seven days to the main day. Our strength is in our diversity. We need to reset and reboot Nigeria in all ramifications – leadership and governance, security of life and properties, economic and political freedom. “We must celebrate our shared values and responsibilities. In this march to freedom, I have not come out for myself! I have come out for the millions of youths that are losing hope in our beloved country! Datti and I, wish to deliver a new Nigeria that is possible! “I have come out for the millions of women who are afraid of tomorrow and what it holds for them and their children! I have come out for the poor who are asking whether it’s a sin to be a Nigerian! For them, I have come! For them, Datti has come! Obi the LP’s message had been consistent, saying the “country is bedeviled by the impunity of those few who have perfected the dubious act of state capture. These national interest issues need to be addressed urgently. The process will start in earnest on February 25.” The former Anambra State governor added that security would be a national imperative, stressing that he would tweak the national security architecture via holistic reform of the security sector and governance. “We will restructure, re-equip and re-orient the Nigeria Police. This will include three level policing – federal, state and community. We will raise the population-police officer ratio to a higher level and ensure a properly manned, equipped and technologically driven security system.” He said the change would be all-encompassing, and that his administration would bring back patriotism and national pride. “loyalty should be to God and country. The Constitution and rule of law will have primacy. May God help us all,” Obi added.