No fewer than three persons have been reportedly shot dead in the Nembe Local Government Area of Bayelsa State following a clash involving two rival cult groups. PUNCH Metro gathered that the incident happened around the Opu-Nembe community at about 10pm on Wednesday. Community sources attributed the violence to the supremacy tussle between the two groups. It was learnt that the victims included a lady, her boyfriend, who is said to be an aide to the community’s Youth President, Ayerite Moses, and one other person. One of the sources who did not want his name in print for security reasons said some armed youths invaded the community and started shooting sporadically, before hitting their targets and attacking the youth president’s house. “He (the youth president’s aide) was in the company of his girlfriend and they were both killed. Another person was also shot dead. “The home of the Opu-Nembe Youth President, Ayerite Moses, was also attacked and vandalised,” the source said. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the incident to PUNCH Metro, said the number of casualties could not be ascertained. “There was a clash between rival groups at Nembe Bassambiri on February 15, 2023, at about 22:00 hours, the casualty figure cannot be ascertained at the moment. “We have deployed additional men to the community and normalcy has been restored,” he said. Rivers killing Meanwhile, the death toll in the Valentine’s Day shooting involving members of a cult gang in Ikata, Upata kingdom, Ahoada East Local Government Area of Rivers State has risen from nine to 10. A native of Ikata community, Caleb Ekpelinwe, told journalists in Port Harcourt on Thursday that his 55-year-old uncle who was hit by a stray bullet during the attack died on Wednesday night. Ekpelinwe said, “The person that died on Wednesday was my uncle. His name is Odozi Okechukwu; he is from Ikata community, 55-year-old. “He died on Wednesday night, February 15, 2023. Considering the injuries he sustained from that shooting that day, he was rushed to the Ahoada General Hospital but they could not handle his case. So, on their way to Port Harcourt, he died and was brought back for burial.” While saying the deceased was not a member of any cult group, Ekpelinwe added, “He was hit by a bullet while the cultists were exchanging gunfire, as he was about buying something from a shop. “With my uncle’s death, added to the nine that died that day, the casualty figure is now 10. The other nine persons have been buried but my uncle is yet to be buried.” The state PPRO, Grace Iringe-Koko, while confirming the death of the nine persons in the cult clash, had said two persons were arrested in connection with the incident. When contacted on the latest casualty, Iringe-Koko said, “The Divisional Police Officer has not given me any situation report on that.”