Some supporters of the New Nigeria Peoples Party in Kano State on Thursday survived attacks by thugs on their way to the party’s final presidential rally ahead of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. It was gathered at least 10 vehicles were damaged while several others were burnt in the incident which occurred along Naibawa-Zaria Road. The NNPP supporters were on their way to Kwanar Dangora located on the outskirts of the city to receive the party’s presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso, who was on his way to Kano for the grand finale of his presidential campaign rally, when the incident happened. Meanwhile, the Kano State Police Command has ordered the immediate suspension of the presidential campaign grand finale of the NNPP, All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party in the state. The ruling party and two major opposition parties had mobilised members and loyalists to drum up final support for their presidential and national assembly candidates, all of whom were scheduled to hold events Thursday (today) in the city. Disturbed by the raging political rivalry between the APC and the two major opposition parties, the police authority summoned the leadership of the three political parties to an emergency meeting Wednesday evening, where they were cautioned of possible security threats and untoward consequences of the multiple rallies. In a letter by the police, the police said, “You recall that (three) political parties via APC, NNPP, and PDP informed the command of their rallies scheduled for Thursday, February 23, 2023, within Kano metropolis.” “In view of the precarious security situation in the state and the country in general, the commissioner of Police summoned the representatives of the three political parties to an emergency meeting to find a solution to the impasse.” The statement signed by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mu’azu Mohammed, added, “The Commissioner of Police passionately appealed to the consciousness of the representatives that this is not in their best interest considering the fragile security of the state.” “It is therefore advised that all political parties postpone the planned presidential/national assembly rallies to a later date after the February 25 elections,” DCP Muhammed noted.