…says S’Court pronouncements dangerous for democracy A renowned scholar and Director, Abuja School of Social and Political Thoughts, Dr. Sam Amadi, on Thursday raised concerns over the recent pronouncement by the Supreme Court, describing it as dangerous for the development of democracy and sustainable peace in the court. He was reacting to the decisions concerning the leadership crisis in the All Progressives Grand Alliance; and pronouncements in Akwa Ibom and Kebbi states where the apex court declared former governor Godswill Akpabio and Senate President, Ahmad Lawal senatorial candidates of the All Progressives Congress. Amadi also warned the Independent National Electoral Commission that any association with any platform under the control of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Lagos State Council’s chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo in the distribution of voting materials would be a big risk. At a press conference in Abuja, Amadi said with such pronouncements, the Supreme Court had taken over the duties of INEC. He said, “INEC needs not to be told that any association with any platform under the control of MC Oluomo is a big risk. Whatever it will take for INEC to maintain credibility must be done. INEC should go the extra mile to ensure that it does not jeopardise the credibility of the elections it is conducting. Any dealing with MC Oluomo’s controlled platform is a complete negation of objectivity and neutrality. “We want to see INEC take a bold and correct decision in the MC Oluomo and APGA cases. In the case of MC Oluomo, INEC should disengage his road transport union from the distribution of materials in Lagos State because of his obvious and open involvement in the presidential campaigns of Bola Tinubu of the APC. In the case of the APGA leadership tussle, INEC should immediately affirm the decision of the court on the matter. “The Abuja School and its partners have been analysing reports of decisions by courts on the election. We are worried by the fact that the courts are taking over the electoral process. This is dangerous for the development of democracy and sustainable peace in the court. The electoral process is based on the will of the people and the freedom of the people to choose their leaders. This process needs to be strengthened to avoid the possibility of violence post-election. “The role of the courts in managing electoral disputes has become controversial. “A few weeks ago, the Supreme Court declared that former Governor Akpabio is the lawful candidate for Senate in Akwa Ibom. This is a matter that the INEC REC reported that Akpabio did not contest the right primary. We take the view that in such cases as the Akpabio case the intervention of the Supreme Court often suggests usurpation of the right of party members to elect their candidates. “The worst case is the case of the Senate President who did not contest for the Senate because he was involved in the primary for the presidential candidate of his party. The court basically imposed him on the ground of the internal affair of the party and on the mere technicality of the form of originating the suit by Machina. “These decision exposes the highest court of the land to a complaint of taking over the work of INEC and the voters. Another of the cases that weaken confidence in the judiciary and its role in the electoral process is the case over the leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance.”