The senator representing Kogi West senatorial district under the All Progressive Congress, Smart Adeyemi, has alleged that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar; his running mate, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele; were behind the cash crunch crisis as a result of the naira redesign policy. He added that Emefiele connived with Atiku in unleashing the hardship on Nigerians for the sole purpose of making Nigerians vote against the presidential candidate of the APC, Aiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the 2023 general election. Adeyemi said this on Tuesday while fielding questions from journalists in Abuja on the coming Presidential and National Assembly elections. The senator posited that Tinubu was the main target of the crisis, to pave way for the emergence of Atiku and Okowa as President and Vice President of Nigeria but which according to him, has failed. The plot, he added, arose from the failure of Emefiele’s presidential ambition with an attendant move of foisting his cousin, Governor Okowa, as vice presidential candidate of the PDP. Adeyemi said, “The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria is the architect of the crisis facing the country from the naira redesign policy. “He came up with the policy after failing to realise his presidential ambition last year. As good as the policy may be painted, why implement it during an election period? “Unfortunately for them, the political misfortune targeted with the policy for the APC candidates, particularly the presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has backfired through the stance taken by Tinubu against it.” Adeyemi added, “Nigerians have through the crisis known those standing for the people and those happy for their sufferings. Tinubu is with the people and will be overwhelmingly voted for come Saturday during the presidential election. “Aside from their plotted agenda through the policy, Atiku is supposed not to be contesting in the first place in this election in the spirit of fairness, equity and justice as rightly considered by the APC northern governors. “As far as those rooting for the unity and oneness of Nigerians are concerned across the various political parties, the presidential contest on Saturday is between Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the APC and Peter Obi of the Labour Party since power is expected to shift to the southern part of the country.”