The Independent National Electoral Commission in Adamawa State has expressed readiness to proceed with the conduct of presidential polls on Saturday, February 25, 2023. Resident Electoral Commissioner in charge of the state, Barrister Hudu Yunusa Ari, who addressed journalists in Yola, on the preparedness of the commission, said a total of 17,812 personnel have been recruited for the exercise in the state. Ari also disclosed that already 4,104 Bimodal Voter Accreditation Systems have been received for the 2023 general elections in the state with 275 BVAS still expected as a backup. According to Ari, the commission will deploy all the configured BVAS to all the 21 local government areas this midweek for charging in readiness for the election noting that it will also deploy technology for transmitting election results from the polling units known as “IRev”. Ari also confirmed the receipt of non-sensitive materials from the zonal office in Gombe State including ballot boxes, voting cubicles, election bags, liquid gum, colour printer, maintenance kits, toners, and micro dry dip, first aid kits among others. “Over 80% of our non-sensitive materials have been supplied and moved to the 21 LGAs in the state while sensitive materials for the February, 25, 2023 presidential/NASS election have been delivered to the Central Bank of Nigeria Yola”. “We have engaged the NURTW, NARTO and maritime workers on the provision of vehicles for transportation across the 21 local councils in the state following the certification by Federal Road Safety Corp for the elections”.Rec Said The REC also stated that the process was concluded via INECPRES portal, adding that 17,812 personnel were recruited. He said the commission has reviewed and revalidated the framework on IDP voting. Barrister Ali urged the citizens in the state to conduct themselves orderly, and peacefully before, during and after the elections with a view to having a hitch-free election exercise. “We have completed the printing of Voter Register for all the 21 local Government Areas LGA in both colour and black and white. The Electoral Officers have proofread and cross-checked all the print out to ensure there are no missing pages or names omitted.” ” We have also conducted training for our staff to adequately prepare them for the conduct of the 2023 general elections in the state ‘ he said