The Speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, has alleged an assassination attempt on his life by some yet-to-be-identified assailants, who shot at his house in Ilesa in the early hours of Wednesday. Owoeye, the lawmaker representing Ilesa East state constituency, while speaking to newsmen at the All Progressives Congress Ilesa East local government party secretariat in Ilesa, accused the Peoples Democratic Party of sponsoring the attacks. He expressed concern over rising cases of violent attacks in the state, and commended security officers working with him for repelling the attempt to kill him by the assailants. “In the early hours of today, (Wednesday) 22 February, an assassination attempt was made on my life. If not for divine providence, the story would have been different. I want to salute the security men who stood their ground to prevent my assailants from carrying out their aim. “This attack was also extended to the businesses of Hon. Adewale Adedoyin, the honourable member representing llesa West State Constituency, and Hon. Folarin Fafowora, the immediate past Chairman of llesa West Central LCDA. These businesses which contribute to the economic development of the town were destroyed in the well-coordinated attack. “The recent happenings in Osun are becoming worrisome and need proper attention from every well-meaning citizen. The return of political thuggery after about 12 years of the All Progressives Congress APC administration in the state now gives residents and citizens sleepless nights. “It will not be wrong to say that the change of baton in the government in the state has encouraged the return to the dark era of when citizens cannot sleep with their two eyes closed,” Owoeye said. The lawmaker, while calling on the police to investigate the matter with a view to bringing to book the perpetrators, further said, “I, therefore, call on the police to investigate the assassination attempt on my life, the gruesome murder of Alaro and others to ensure that those involved are brought to justice.” But while responding to the allegation against his party, the Osun PDP Director of Media and Publicity, Olabamiji Oladele, said Owoeye did not speak the truth linking the party to the attack. Oladele, who said three PDP members were shot in Ilesa shortly after Adeleke concluded a campaign rally in the town, noted that rather than the Speaker condemning the incident, he instead alleged assassination attempt on his life. He further said, “The Speaker to me is not saying the truth and I believe with his exalted position in the state, he should be at the forefront of ensuring peace among our people no matter the party colouration. “Just yesterday, three members of the PDP were shot by the APC thugs just to cause unnecessary apprehension and whatever you want to achieve in politics, I think human life should not be used to solve any political issue. We condemn that in totality.”