The Lagos State government has deployed a Cessna 406 aircraft for the aerial mapping of the state. According to the state government, the exercise was part of the major component of the Enterprise, Geographic Information System upgrade of the state, which was aimed at providing a digital mapping platform. Speaking at the launch of the exercise at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, the Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, said that the mapping would enable the government to plan adequately for the residents of the state. He also stated that the exercise would help in knowing the actual number of buildings in the state and help to update its database. Hamzat said the aircraft with the registration number ZS-SSY from South Africa would carry out the exercise daily for a minimum of four and half hours daily for about two months. Hamzat asserted, “The aircraft has a huge camera. When it flies it can capture a coin. It flies relatively low at about 4,000ft below sea level. The essence is for it to capture everything that is in Lagos State. It can go and come back. There are layers of flying. The essence for us is to know what is in Lagos. It has a glider that can capture water and land. It would be flying for about four and a half hours daily, depending on the weather. “We have done it before. Lagos like any other city is dynamic. What we had five years ago is not what you have today. The international standard is to do it every five years so that you can update your database and everything. So, basically, what it does is that you are able to map every inch of soil in your land, various buildings where you have your allocations and sizes.” The deputy governor noted the essence was of knowing the data of the state and it would help the government in planning. “What you cannot really measure, you cannot really manage it. So, the essence for us is to be able to measure every inch of Lagos and its size. “For us, fortunately, a census is coming up in March. If you have all those gladder information, you are able to map it with your census and it determines everything. It allows you to have enormous data to plan for your citizens so that you don’t wink in the dark.” The deputy governor enjoined residents of the state not to panic when they see the aircraft pass through their domains as it would be flying at about 4,000ft above sea level, stressing that it was for the benefit of all. The Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Enterprise, Geographic Information System and Planning Matters, Dr Olajide Babatunde, said the project would lead to the mapping of the state’s lands. He reiterated that the exercise was part of the projects of the enterprise geographic information system that the state was building to be able to solve some challenges currently bedevilling it. He said, “What we are doing now is mapping and, thereafter, we will do a survey. This will enable us to have our spatial data infrastructure complete.