The Senior Pastor, Dunamis Church International Gospel Center Worldwide, Pastor Paul Enenche on Friday in Makurdi admonished Nigerians to be motivated by good governance and better future in their choice of the president in the February 25 presidential election. Pastor Enenche was in Makurdi, capital city of Benue for a two-day crusade with the theme “Light has come’ and is expected to be conferred with honourary doctor of vicinity at Benue State University, Makurdi on Saturday. Speaking with journalists, the man of God admonished Nigerians to vote wisely and described the coming election as an opportunity to choose between the continuation of terrorism, bandits, bad governance and light and development. He warned that if Nigerians make a mistake to choose wrongly in the forthcoming elections the country, he said, will continue to wallow in adversity and calamity. He said, “2023 election is an opportunity to change the future of the country to move away and depart from the evil, wickedness and darkness that have bedevilled our nation for the past seven to eight years. “It is an opportunity to choose whether we want bandits to continue, terrorism to continue, underdevelopment to continue, massive corruption to continue, nepotism, clannist operation or we want a complete total departure. “When we see the candidates that have presented to contest election it’s very clear that we are having choices between people that are having issues that we know or people that have records clean and untainted. “It is a choice to make. It is a choice between corruption or incorruption. A choice between light and darkness. “It’s a choice between progress and retrogression, a choice between old and new order. If we choose the old order, the old way of doing things, if we choose expired and retired people who should be resting and choose them back it means we are ready to continue in adversity and calamity. “But if we choose people of proven result, proven credibility, proven integrity, if we choose someone with a proven track record with heart for the people then we have the chance to change things. He urged Nigerians to rise and ensure that they educate their people at the rural areas of, “who to vote, tell them who to vote and the logo to vote.”