In a bid to encourage residents of Nasarawa State to become employers of labour, the government has trained 150 youths, has trained 150 youths drawn from across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state in Business Plan development. Speaking at the One-day training in Lafia on Friday, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Abdullahi Sule on Human Capital Development, Habiba Balarabe-Suleiman, said the essence of the training was to enhance the capacity of the trainees to meet global best practices. She narrated that white colour jobs were no longer available in the labour market, hence the need for youths in the state to acquire skills outside what they studied in school. The SSA to the Governor expressed confidence in the participants attracting great opportunities to themselves after the training programme. She assured of the state government’s commitment to provide an enabling environment for the youths to explore their potentials in order for them to contribute meaningfully to the growth of the state. She said, “This entrepreneurship training became imperative because of the determination of Governor Abdullahi Sule’s administration to engage our youths positively. “That is why we rolled out this training for the youths where they would be equipped with the 21st century skill of developing and presenting a viable business plan. “Basically, we try to give them the skill and knowledge they need so that when eventually they start their businesses or gain employment, they would be able to handle whatever they are doing seriously and be more productive in their lines of work.” Balarabe-Suleiman further explained that the training would equip the beneficiaries with the requisite skills to participate in the N500 million Youth Revolving Fund Scheme approved by the State Government and the Bank of Industry. Earlier in his speech, Commissioner for Trade, Industry and Investment, Salihu Enah, urged the 150 youths to be serious with the training programme to enable them excel in their businesses and chosen careers. “The applicants must know that this training is to prepare them towards self-reliance and sustainable livelihood so as to reduce the over dependence on government. The government cannot do it alone because it has enormous responsibilities of meeting up with the yearnings and aspiration of the electorates,” he said. One of the participants, Noel Dennis, who spoke on behalf of the others, lauded the state government for the training and promised to put the entre