A Yoruba Nation self-determination organisation, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, on Sunday, described as disgusting, unfounded and a full-fledged absurdity a statement credited to Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, that Yoruba were stockpiling weapons and planning to create chaos in February 25 general elections. IOOW, in a statement by its Supreme Leader, Banji Akintoye and spokesman, Kunle Adelakun, respectively, said there was no iota of truth on the perception or submission of police boss towards Yoruba people or nation. The group said, “This allegation is disgusting, unfounded and in a full-fledged absurdity. And that such an allegation could ever be labelled on Yoruba people who naturally are known to be peace-loving people. A non-violent race who always employ a civil, diplomatic and non-violent approach to settle conflict or issues that affect them and their neighbours. “Over the years, we have been resilient, and civil in our approach and at the same time observed diplomatic mechanisms in line with the international laws and other extant domestic laws. “The world at large and the international community knows very well that Yoruba people are too matured politically to even resolve to carry arms or engage in a violent means of settling discourse or political disputes.” It stated that the recent event in Nigeria had proven that the Federal Government inflicted or has a hand in the crisis presently engulfing the entire country, adding that the poor and majority of Nigerians are continuing to suffer without halt, for a reason best known to the government. IOOW further said the government must be queried and provide answers to all the atrocities, and certainly, not the Yoruba people or nation. “Historically, we have shown and displayed this non-violent culture during the 1967-1979 civil war. Where we displayed technical intelligence and God-given wisdom to quench the Nigeria civil war. “It is on record till now that if not the Yoruba Military men and political leaders who laid down their lives during this period, Nigeria would not have been what it is today, as one and certainly, Nigeria would not have won the bloody Biafra war. “We want to believe that Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba needs to be tutored historically. “Perhaps, this would make him have an unsentimental understanding and clear judgment about the Yoruba people. “If we are to look into those who are behind the artificial crisis being inflicted on Nigerians daily, most especially, the insecurity (Boko Haram, ISIS) and destruction of farmlands, kidnappings for ransoms, invasions of Yoruba land, South East and Middle Belt regions by Fulani herders/land grabbers. “Yoruba people/Nation are only exercising their indigenous rights to advocate and canvases for their sovereign nation, the act which is protected under the United Nation and African charters. “The right for self-determination is never against Nigeria or international laws. “On this point, we have seen and still witnessing the scarcity of fuel, most especially in Southern Nigeria. “The Central Bank policy on naira redesigned is not helping the already tensed environment and nation’s economy.” The group, therefore, urged every Yoruba to be security conscious and not to allow the agents of division within their camp to triumph over their collective conviction as the enemy within is too dangerous, hence the need to be on alert.