An expert, Runcie Chidebe, has sought adequate recruitment of psychologists in hospitals to tackle the menace of cancer. He also called for the collaboration of critical stakeholders in Nigeria, and Africa toward addressing the health challenge. Speaking during a webinar on Saturday, the cancer control advocate said it was important for government, agencies and private sector actors to join hands in addressing cancer issues in society. Chidebe also identified the need to have psychologists who would relate with cancer patients from the mirror perspective, that is, experts who understand the cancer problem as if it affects them as well. “All of us can talk and publish all sort of research, but to translate these researches into practice, (we need to) bring them down to normal understanding of the patient,” he said. He lamented that only a few hospitals in Nigeria prioritised adequate recruitment of psychologists. “If we widen the gap a little bit and check across Africa, you would be shocked that less than 100 centres have adequate psychologists. “The next point is cancer support group. Every single cancer (patient) needs a cancer support group. Patients listen to doctors, consultants and everybody, but sometimes within themselves, they know that such a doctor has never had cancer. “Doctors need to build confidence in patients and allow patients to relate with one other and try what we call peer support,” Chidebe added. Speaking on sustainable collaboration, he said African countries should find it easy to collaborate. “We have many private sector investments that need to be encouraged now. We need that collaboration to strengthen the private sector,” he said. He said people who run cancer centres in the private sector today are not doing it to make gain, instead, “they are running it because of the gap.” Another issue discussed under the theme, ‘Breaking the bad news’ was the need to take into cognisance how the manner of sharing information about cancer patients may affect their feelings. The programme was moderated by a Professor of Radiology at the College of Medicine, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, Ifeoma Okoye. Also present among a host of other experts, was the Chief Executive Officer of Cormode Cancer Foundation, a nongovernmental organisation championing cancer awareness, Dr Denise Ejoh.