The United States Embassy in Nigeria has said it has limited ability to provide emergency services to US citizens in many areas of Nigeria due to security conditions. This was contained in an updated travel advisory alert titled “Reissued with updates to staffing and do not travel areas” on 20 February. The Embassy said violent crime, which is common throughout the country, was often targeting dual nationals who had returned to Nigeria. It partly read, “Violent crime – such as armed robbery, assault, carjacking, kidnapping, hostage taking, banditry, and rape – is common throughout the country. Kidnappings for ransom occur frequently, often targeting dual-national citizens who have returned to Nigeria for a visit, as well as U.S. citizens with perceived wealth. Kidnapping gangs have also stopped victims on interstate roads. “Terrorists continue plotting and carrying out attacks in Nigeria. Terrorists may attack with little or no warning, targeting shopping centres, malls, markets, hotels, places of worship, restaurants, bars, schools, government installations, transportation hubs, and other places where crowds gather. Terrorists are known to work with local gangs to expand their reach. “There is civil unrest and low-level armed militancy in parts of Southern Nigeria, especially in the Niger Delta region. Armed criminality, including kidnapping and maritime crime, is also pervasive in this region. “Violence can flare up between communities of farmers and herders in rural areas. The US government has limited ability to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens in many areas of Nigeria due to security conditions.” It, however, warned its citizens in Nigeria not to travel to “Borno, Yobe, Kogi, and northern Adamawa states due to terrorism and kidnapping, stressing that they should avoid “Bauchi, Gombe, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, and Zamfara states due to kidnapping. “Coastal areas of Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, and Rivers states (with the exception of Port Harcourt) due to crime, kidnapping, and maritime crime”