The leader of the pan Yoruba socio-political organisation Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, has said that the ‘Emi lokan’ claim of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, is an agreement between him (Tinubu) and the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). ‘Emi lokan’, a Yoruba phrase meaning  “it is my turn” was made popular by Tinubu, following his June 2022 address in Abeokuta, Ogun State when he pushed for the APC presidential ticket. Adebanjo, while addressing Labour Party supporters in Lagos at the final presidential campaign of the party, however, said the expression does not represent the Yoruba people but is an agreement that Tinubu would succeed Buhari after he leaves office. The 94-year-old elder statesman said, “The one who said ‘it is my turn’ is his agreement with Buhari. “Emilokan didn’t say it is the turn of the Yoruba. Emilokan’s agreement with Buhari was that when Buhari leaves office, he will take over. (But) were you there when he said that?” he asked the crowd, who responded saying, “No.” Adebanjo, again reiterated that if the LP candidate does not win the election, “forget about Nigeria.” He said, “I said before that if Obi does not come in as the president, forget Nigeria. The northern elders now say I want to impose Obi on them. No! They want to impose a northerner on us, and we said no.” Adebanjo becomes the second elder statesman of Yoruba extraction to criticise the phrase after former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The elder statesman last week, explained why Obi should win the 2023 presidential election. Adebanjo, who has been a staunch supporter of Obi, said if the LP candidate loses there would be no opportunity for a non-Christian and a non-northerner to be president again. Making his position known at the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum in Abuja, Adebanjo had said, “They are making all sorts of devices to ensure that power remains in a particular part of the country. That’s why they are not even supporting the candidate of their own party. “We will give it what it takes. It is either bend or break. If Obi does not win, forget a country called Nigeria.” Meanwhile, The PUNCH earlier reported that no fewer than four persons were injured in an attack on supporters of the LP presidential candidate on Saturday in Lagos. According to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, investigations into the attack had commenced. Obi also vehemently condemned the attack against his supporters.