 The Spokesperson for the Coalition of United Political Parties, Ikenga Ugochinyere, has dedicated his victory in the election into the Ideato North and South Federal Constituency in Imo State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party to his late uncle and other victims who died when assassins came after him on January 14. His Akokwa community in Ideato was said to have erupted in widespread jubilation on Sunday as the Independent National Electoral Commission declared him winner. “Today, I thank God for my victory, despite all evil machinations by state sponsored agents to deny me my well deserved  victory. Today, I dedicate my victory to my late Uncle, Daniel Ikeagwuone and two others who were killed by suspected state armed militia”, he said in a short statement on Sunday. In the result announced on Sunday by the INEC Returning Officer for Ideato North and South, UgoChinyere polled a total of 13,026 votes to defeat his closest rival in the election and the Labour Party candidate, Hon. Pascal Obi who scored 5,696 votes The candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Chika Abazu, scored 2,368 votes. Ugochinyere had said that contrary to insinuations that the attack on his residence was carried out by members of the Indigenous People of Biafra, the incident which left over 500 bullet holes on his residential houses was masterminded by a sponsored militia. He said high grade explosives were used during the attack in which over 32 vehicles, motorcycles and other properties valued at N550 million were burnt. “We were shot at, we were bombed with high grade explosives, houses were leveled with bombs, those still standing were shaken to their foundations and vehicles numbering over 32 were all set ablaze with these explosives. “Several motorcycles belonging to hardworking villagers were burnt amongst other property valued at over N550 million only lost in the attacks. They attacked in broad daylight, firing from all angles and leaving over 500 bullet holes on the houses in my country home. Innocent people were killed for no reason,” he said. He told journalists that the attackers bore the same semblance with the team that attacked his convoy on December 23 2022, which he alleged was led by the Special Adviser to Imo State governor on Special Duties, Chinasa Nwaneri. He accused the Imo state government of being responsible for the killing of his uncle, Chief Daniel Iloabanafo Ikeagwuonu, and all others who died in the attack. However, the allegation had been denied severally by the government.