The Independent National Electoral Commission on Thursday began the movement of sensitive electoral materials from the Central Bank of Nigeria to the 21 local government area headquarters in Adamawa State. The dispatch of the materials was witnessed by representatives of registered political parties through their agents. Yunusa Hudu Ari, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, during the distribution of the sensitive materials assured of adequate security for the presidential polls which will be held tomorrow (Saturday). Details of the sensitive materials released for onward delivery to the LGAs include ballot papers, result sheets and the Bimodal Voter Accreditation Systems. He said, ” We have met with the security agencies who have assured us of the orderly conduct of the polls. The commissioner of police disclosed that at least two policemen would be stationed at each polling unit. They will monitor the polls from a distance as prescribed in the electoral guideline. “Don’t forget that there’s also the deployment of soldiers especially in Madagali and Michika, and some parts of Fufore. “The BVAS will be moved to the local government headquarters on Friday, and from there on to the registration areas for ease of delivery to the polling units on Saturday.” Ari said he expects the polls to proceed without any hitch because of the assurances the commission has received from security agencies of their readiness towards an orderly and peaceful outcome at the polls. According to the Adamawa INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, the BVAS for the polls would be delivered to the local government headquarters of INEC before being dispatched to the registration areas and then unto each polling unit. As proof of its preparedness ahead of tomorrow’s polls, the police and other security agencies jointly held a standard operational procedure to show the force heightened combat readiness. Suleiman Nguroje, Police Public Relations, Adamawa state Police Command, in a press release, revealed that all available operational assets would be deployed to create an enabling and conducive environment for the successful conduct of free and fair elections.  