President of the Nigerian Community in Turkey, Prince Magboh, shares his thoughts with TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN on the recent 7.5 and 7.8 earthquakes in Turkey which led to the death of about 12,000 people and the safety of his fellow countrymen Do you have an idea of the Nigerian population in Turkey? We have many Nigerians in Turkey. The number of registered members (Nigerians) are over 4,500 as of February 9, 2023. How many Nigerians live in that area where the earthquake happened? Report reaching the Nigerian Community in Turkey from the Embassy has it that some Nigerians are resident in some of the earthquake-affected cities; Adana, Gaziantep and Sanliurfa. No Nigerian is amongst the dead or injured so far, but there’s an African footballer that was affected, he is from Ghana. There are no reports of Nigerians affected going by our research and findings. How are you helping one another at these times? As at the moment we got news of the level of damage, we reached out to Nigerians through our media channels and SMS, and we informed Nigerians in Turkey to give vital information about any Nigerian affected by the disaster. Though we did not set aside any provision for such an emergency in case of natural disaster, as a community working closely with the Nigerian Embassy, we are open to assisting every Nigerian with challenges they may have and offer any help regarding the current incidents that happen. Has there been an emergency response number your members could call if they need help? Yes, we have issued out the community phone number with which affected Nigerians all over Turkey can reach us for assistance. How would assess the response of the Nigerian Embassy since the incident happened? In fact, I commend the Nigerian Embassy for its continued efforts. They have reached out to the community a number of times through letters and phone calls. The Ambassador, in his letter issued us, gave an emergency number that we’ll pass to all Nigerians if an emergency suddenly happens. The Nigerian embassy in Ankara, even long before now, has been responsive to our plights, doing their work effectively. Where were you when the earthquake started and what were were your initial thoughts? I was at home with my wife and family as at the period when the quakes occurred. The earthquakes happened at midnight. Immediately we heard about the incident, we switched on the television and confirmed it from the news channel, where we realised it happened in cities far from our city. My initial thought was that the disaster happened within its usual environs in Istanbul and hence I and my family were safe. My heart went to family relations, friends and members of the community. Do you know any of your members that have been affected? As of today, no Nigerian has reported through our emergency line in the public domain of being affected by the earthquakes. However, Nigerians are not mostly residents of those affected cities as we have more Nigerians in Istanbul than any other city in Turkey. Turkey doesn’t seem to be one of the top destinations Nigerians travel to; how is life in that country, especially for foreigners? Life in Turkey is great. The Turkish people are very good people, and they welcome foreigners, especially from the African continent. Life in Turkey is okay because there are business opportunities here. If you have money to do business, you will excel here. We have a lot of Nigerians doing business here; some are into textiles and clothing, building materials, and a lot of other businesses. Turkey is a very good business destination for Nigerians; their products are of good quality and affordable. Would you know if some Nigerians are thinking of returning home because of what happened? Yes, some people called me with the fear that the earthquakes might affect Istanbul soon and would like to return home to Nigeria to observe the situation for a while. Well, I responded by telling them that it is not in our hands to know where next it may hit, we don’t know when next it will happen and where. Are there efforts to relocate those in or close to high-risk areas? Yes, in areas where the incident happened, the Turkish government is getting their citizens to other cities that are safe now. As reported, Turkish airlines have reduced the prices for local flights owing to the disaster, with over 50% discount for those who want to travel to other cities because of the earthquake. So, it is a very good idea for the Turkish people. Being a natural disaster that can happen in any other place, is there any apprehension among the people or there is calm? There was fear among the people, but with government’s intervention, calm was returned to people living in the affected cities. Those in other cities like Istanbul have the same apprehension of being hit by earthquakes, but there is nothing we can do because this is a natural disaster. It’s not in our hands to control. What has been the response of your organisation so far to help since the earthquake occurred? Nigerians in Turkey are with the Turkish people and the Turkish government in these perilous times. We will continue in our prayers and support them through this period. We have already sent the first batch of textiles, drugs, and sanitary wear for women and children, and we will send the second batch as a community soonest. We pray that such magnitude of earthquakes will not happen again. We should all show compassion and support to the victims of Turkey because when we find ourselves in the same position, they will reciprocate with kindness. So, let us come together and show our support. Do you have any word for the Nigerian President over the Turkey earthquake? We plead with the Federal Government of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, to show support to the Turkish government and the Turkish people for the natural disaster that happened to them because they are very good people that love Africa, they love Nigeria. We’ll be very happy if the Federal Government of Nigeria can give a helping hand to them. May God bless Turkey, may God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and we say to those that lost their lives in this incident, may their gentle soul rest in peace, and to those injured, we pray God grant them quick recovery.  A Nigerian journalist based in Turkey, Stanley Okonye, talks to TOPE OMOGBOLAGUN about the earthquake and its effects on Nigerians W hen did you move to Turkey? I moved to Turkey in 2017. Why did you leave Nigeria for Turkey? I secured a job with TRT World, a Turkish public media organisation located in Istanbul that broadcasts in English 24 hours. What was the situation of things in Turkey prior to the earthquake? Just like most countries, Turkey was affected by the pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine war. Inflation has been on the high. Was there any warning about the earthquake from the government? The country’s emergency agency AFAD (Turkey Disaster and Emergency Management Authority) has been issuing warnings. Last December or so, there was a dummy earthquake drill where residents were told how to react during an earthquake I am not aware of any Nigerian trapped. The one that made the round was former Chelsea and Newcastle player, Christian Atsu, who was stuck under rubbles, but was pulled out injured this morning. Do you know if any Nigerian was trapped or injured in the earthquake? I don’t have that information. The search and rescue effort is general and humanitarian stuff provided for victims and survivors goes to everyone. There’s no discrimination in managing this disaster. Any form of fear or panic in the area where you stay? No, there’s no panic, Turkish citizens are very patriotic, and everyone is pitching in to help. It’s a sad but not entirely unexpected event. The country is under an earthquake fault line which is prone to earthquakes. Will you be willing to come back to Nigeria should the quakes escalate to other parts of the country? That’s an interesting question. When we get to that bridge, we will cross it.  