The Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, Delta State, on Friday warned the students of the institution that the school had zero tolerance for indecent or nude dressing, bullying, cultism and such other social vices. Addressing the academic community on the occasion of the matriculation ceremony for full-time and School of Industrial Continuing Education programmes for the 2022/2023 academic session, the Principal and Chief Executive of PTI, Dr. Henry Adimula, warned the students against engaging in vices such as examination misconduct, all forms of physical abuse, misuse of social media, certificate forgery as well as use of drugs, narcotics and drug peddling, among others. He said, “Let me inform our matriculants that the PTI is a centre of excellence in the petroleum industry in Nigeria. We provide leadership, best practices, research, support and training for the petroleum industry. For this purpose, we have zero tolerance for the vices.” The Principal advised the 1,718 matriculating students to “always follow proper channels of communication in airing their grievances, and to always make the right choices.” He implored the students to embrace hard work, perseverance, learning, studying and sacrifice noting that, “success in the PTI will not come to you by buying your way through, as this is completely against our culture and practice in the Institute.” “You need to hit the ground running immediately by giving diligent and conscientious attention to your studies. Your attendance in classes must be above 75% to qualify you to sit for exams to enable you achieve academic success in PTI,” he stated. Adimula noted with delight that the 2022/2023 academic session marked the beginning of the post-Jubilee era of the PTI and implored the matriculating students to rise up to the renewed pursuit of excellence as the Institute seeks long lasting solutions to the challenges of the petroleum industry. He said, “We must look for new ways of exploiting fossil fuel with the aid of local and indigenous technology. This task starts with you. My prayer is that at the end of the next two academic sessions, you will not only graduate with your certificates but also with awards and laurels and a developed capacity to contribute to the betterment of our society. “The vision of PTI is to become the leading oil and gas technological Institute in Africa, while the mission is to provide competent technological human resources through quality training, research and consultancy for the oil and gas and allied industry. This we have been doing for the past fifty years. You have at your disposal in the Institute, well equipped laboratories, workshops, training equipment and facilities that are the best in sub-Saharan Africa. The Principal said the process for repositioning the Institute to better actualise its mandate was at an advanced stage for which the students would benefit when fully implemented. He said, “Our focus for the post-Jubilee era is to integrate our hands-on training model with more emphasis on creativity and innovation.” He called on all staff and students of the institution to be ready for this new shift in the training model. “Students’ projects and staff research groups will be tailored towards solving particular problems in the industry and in our immediate environment,” he said.