The Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Ayodele Adejuwon, has charged the Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria to expedite action on efforts to ensure a stable flow of currency circulation to ease economic pains being experienced by the citizens. Oba Adejuwon, who is the Onisan of Isan Ekiti, said the violence accompanying the naira scarcity had great implications, adding, “We are saddened by reported cases of protests, burning of institutions and shooting of angry Nigerians over naira scarcity. These are dangerous events that portend danger to the free conduct of the 2023 polls.” The traditional ruler, in a statement on Saturday titled, “Naira Scarcity: Ekiti Obas sue for peace, task INEC, security agencies on free, fair polls,” appealed to Nigerians including the people of the state to maintain peace and be law-abiding, assuring that the current problem being faced by Nigerians would be tackled in due course. The monarch said, “We appeal to the Federal Government to do the needful to prevent our worsening economic situation from further degeneration by making the currency available to Nigerians with immediate effect. Further delay could be dangerous. “We appeal to Nigerians, particularly Ekiti State residents as they groan under the heavy burden of naira notes scarcity to be cautious. “We know that this is not the best treatment that they deserve, but we must tread softly to prevent our situation from becoming more complicated and degenerated. Though the pain being inflicted on Nigerians due to naira note scarcity is becoming unbearable and excruciating, resorting to arson, killings, and violent protests won’t be panacea for remedying the situation,” he stated. The monarchs also warned Nigerians, especially politicians against bloodshed in the coming general election, advising them to allow the electorate to freely exercise their franchise through one-man-one-vote democratic ethos. They pleaded with the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies to be apolitical in the conduct of the coming polls. According to them, exhibiting fairness and neutrality by these agencies will help in stabilising the country and help in the seamless transition of power to the incoming government at all levels.