The Independent National Electoral Commission has ‘unliked’ a post criticising the presidential candidate of the Labour Party after The PUNCH reported Nigerians’ reactions to the earlier liked post. The PUNCH had reported that the official verified INEC Twitter handle liked a post on the micro-blogging site that was made by a news media outlet (not PUNCH) where Seun Kuti, son of the legendary Afrobeat music icon, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, said the LP candidate was “an opportunist that can’t deliver Nigeria.” Checks by The PUNCH on INEC’s handle earlier in the day showed that the post was listed a liked post on the Twitter handle of the electoral body. However, efforts by our correspondent to get the reaction of the Commissioner for Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, on Wednesday afternoon proved futile, as he did not respond to calls nor reply messages. But when our correspondent reached out to the Chief Press Secretary to the INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, he said, “That’s not true. Our live INEC Twitter page does not have the post you are referring to as at this very moment,” also pledging to look into it. Shortly afterwards, INEC released a statement vowing its neutrality and transparency to the elections, while promising disciplinary actions after concluding investigations into the matter. The electoral body wrote, “The attention of the Independent National Electoral Commission has been drawn to a post on its Twitter handle, liking a post relating to one of the 18 presidential candidates. The Commission is an independent electoral body and does not have preference for any candidate or political party. “The Commission assures all Nigerians of its neutrality and will conduct a general election that is free and fair to all. The allegiance of the Commission is to the people of Nigeria. “In the meantime, the Commission is investigating the circumstances that led to the liking of the said post and will take appropriate disciplinary actions if an infraction is established.” Nigerians on social media had knocked the electoral body after reports filtered in on Tuesday morning as regards the said liking of the post. Checks by our correspondent on Wednesday evening showed that the post was no longer listed as a liked post on INEC’s Twitter page.