…Demands IGP’s intervention on political attacks The Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has expressed worry that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), had yet to fulfil his promise of ensuring justice for all party members allegedly killed in the 2015 elections in the state. Also, the main opposition party in the state alleged that the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, has again allegedly resumed attacks on its supporters in the state, saying its rallies and homes of party leaders are being attack daily. The state APC Publicity Secretary, Darlington Nwauju, disclosed this at a news briefing in Port Harcourt on Thursday. Nwauju further alleged that the Commissioner of Police, Okon Effiong has taken sides with the PDP in the state, pointing out he had yet to order any discreet investigation into the violent political attacks reported to the command under his watch. He called on the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba Akali, to intervene urgently in order to end what he termed repeated and orchestrated attacks against opposition parties in the state. Nwauju stated, “May we remind Nigerians that the APC in Rivers State was built on the blood of over 500 Rivers people who were butchered in different parts of the state simply for belonging to and believing in the APC under the leadership of Rotimi Amaechi. “President Buhari did visit the victims and some relatives at the Kelsey Harrison Hospital in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, January 7, 2015 and promised them justice. “APC in Rivers State and its members flew the flag of the party at the risk of their own lives. “Regrettably those persons that died in Rivers State during the 2015 general elections are yet to get justice. “It is a sad thing to report that up till today they have not gotten justice as promised by the President. “Our desire is to get a Commissioner of justice that will open the books and recall all the atrocities committed in Rivers State against the APC.” The APC Publicity Secretary also alleged that CP Effiong had denied the APC access to a venue duly secured for its rally at Oyibo Local Government Area of the state. “We appeal to the IGP to ensure that the ceaseless attacks in Rivers State stops. “CP Okon Effiong has taken sides with the PDP. It is shocking that till date he has not visited any of the attacks scenes for investigation. “We demand the neutrality and pro-activeness on the side of the security agencies. “It is unprofessional for the police to issue a statement six hours after an attack without investigation. “Police need to ask who detonated those EODs. Sixteen shrapnel were extracted from the body of one of the ladies affected.”