…Insists February 25 presidential election date sacrosanct The Atiku-Okowa campaign organisation has advised the Tinubu-Shettima presidential campaign organisation to forget its discussion of setting up an Interim National Government, saying such has no place in the 1999 Constitution. The campaign also advised the Tinubu-Shettima presidential campaign to immediately end its demands for the postponement of the forthcoming general election. It said the February 25 presidential election date remained sacrosanct and Nigerians were ready to go to the polls. The campaign group stated that its stance was predicated on the reports of sinister plots by the Tinubu campaign team to create grounds and narratives to justify its reported demands for the postponement of the 2023 elections. In a statement by the spokesperson for the Atiku-Okowa campaign, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Wednesday in Abuja, the group said, “Our campaign has also received intelligence of a very dangerous plot by the Tinubu-Shettima campaign to continue to orchestrate unrest across the country aimed at truncating the electoral process, triggering a constitutional crisis and foisting an undemocratic situation of Interim National Government on our country, having realised that it has no chance in the election. “These alleged moves by the Tinubu-Shettima presidential campaign are not only cowardly but also confirm that Tinubu is intimidated by the overwhelming popularity of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and as such seeks to allegedly scuttle the election. Ologbodiyan further said that the public could further understand the full import of Tinubu’s directive to his followers in London that “political power is not going to be served in a restaurant, it is not served a la carte. It is what we are doing; It is being determined; you do it at all cost; fight for it, grab it, snatch it and run with it.” He added that such inciting remarks are at the root of the violent attacks on innocent Nigerians as well as facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission, by the APC thugs in various parts of our country. “It is indeed pathetic that Tinubu, who ought to know that the 1999 Constitution, upon which our democracy derives its existence, is the one reported to be pushing for a situation of an Interim National Government, just because it is clear to him that he cannot win the February 25, 2023 Presidential election. The campaign organisation stressed that the APC presidential candidate must realise that his reliance on financial inducements alone cannot save him. The campaign also urged INEC to protect itself from the shenanigans of the Tinubu-Shettima presidential campaign and focus on its mandate to deliver a free, fair and credible Presidential election on February 25, 2023 while calling on the security agencies to note the machinations of the Tinubu-Shettima campaign and take urgent steps to protect the electoral process and our democracy from being derailed at this point.