A Civil Society Organisation, YIAGA Africa, has published its findings on the mock accreditation exercise recently conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission ahead of the general election. INEC conducted the mock accreditation in some parts of the country on February 4. Among the observations noted by YIAGA Africa was the issue of missing names on the voters’ register. The CSO highlighted in its report its observations on the use of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System devices, uploading of result sheets to the viewing portal, presence of security officers and party agents, and voter turnout, according to a report by The Cable. “At least four polling officials were present in the polling units where the mock exercise held with an average of one female official. Security personnel were also present in 82 per cent of the polling units,” the report partly read. “Party agents for the APC were present in 61 per cent of polling units, party agents for the PDP were present in 56 per cent of polling units, party agents for the LP were present in 22 per cent of polling units, the NNPP party agents in 13 per cent of polling units, the SDP party agents in nine per cent of polling units and party agents for APGA in eight per cent of polling units,” the report added. The report stated that the BVAS functioned properly in 98 per cent of polling units, while it malfunctioned in two per cent. The glitches were, however, fixed. “In 98 per cent of polling units, the BVAS functioned properly. However, in two per cent of polling units, the BVAS malfunctioned, and it was fixed. For instance, the BVAS malfunctioned in Zinaria International Sch, Mararaba PU (25-04-11-111) in Karu ward of Karu LGA in Nasarawa, Tsamiyan Gwamna PU (08-04-01-007) in Balbaya ward of Bayo LGA in Borno, Sarkin Noma, GDSS Dakka PU (34-02-09-007) of Gang Dole ward in Bali LGA, Taraba and S/Gari Jaka Mai Famfo/Kofar PU (36-08-06-007) of Kungurki ward in Kaura Nomoda LGA Zamfara. The malfunctioning of the device did not significantly disrupt the process,” it said. Missing names were also reported with voters in 11 per cent of polling units, whose names were not found on the voter register and the BVAS denied accreditation. “Yiaga Africa observers reported cases of missing names of the voter register. In 11 per cent of polling units, voters whose names were not on the register of voters and the BVAS were denied accreditation. “55 per cent of observers indicated they were very satisfied with the conduct of the mock exercise, 40 per cent of observers reported they were satisfied and, four per cent of observers indicated they were not satisfied with the conduct of the mock accreditation exercise,” it added. The report further stated, “Of the 36 states and the FCT, only 15 states uploaded data on the IReV during the mock accreditation. The states include Abia, Adamawa, Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Gombe, Ondo, Rivers, Plateau, Oyo, Taraba and Sokoto. “Only 82 Polling units uploaded the total number of accredited voters on the BVAS, to the IReV portal. All the 15 states that uploaded mock result sheets on the IReV also transmitted accreditation data except Oyo, Plateau, Edo and Ebonyi states. Of the 94 result sheets uploaded, only 16 result sheets were clear and readable. “Yiaga Africa observed discrepancies in the total number of accredited voters uploaded by the BVAS and the total number of accredited voters recorded on the mock result sheets.” Yiaga Africa recommended the following: that INEC should make its report on the BVAS testing public; notify voters via text message, emails or phone calls on migration of polling units; proper education of electoral officials on recording results to avoid discrepancies; and for INEC to ensure that all BVAS devices are in top condition before deployment for the general election.