The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Brig.Gen. Yusha’u Ahmed, on Tuesday, advised corps members to behave responsibly and shun crimes, noting that they are not immune against being prosecuted. The NYSC DG gave the advice in Gombe, while addressing the Batch A stream I corps members deployed in the state at the end of the three-week orientation camping. No fewer than 839 corps members, comprising  465 males and 374 females, underwent orientation camping at the Amada temporary orientation camp Akko Local Government Area of Gombe State. Ahmed urged them to shun ignoble activities, such as drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advance fee fraud and spreading of fake news, that could portray the NYSC in bad light. Represented by Gombe State NYSC Coordinator, Ada Imoni, the DG enjoined them to conduct their affairs with diligence and be guided by the provisions of the NYSC Act and bye-law. He said, “At all times, you should be good ambassadors of the NYSC as well as your families and institutions of graduation. Therefore, you must be wary of acts that can portray the scheme in bad light, especially drug abuse and trafficking, cybercrime, advanced fee fraud and spreading of fake news, among others. “Also remember that your membership of the service corps does not confer on you immunity from the legal consequences of any wrongdoing. You are, therefore, enjoined to continue to be law-abiding while also serving as role models to the younger ones.” While reminding them about their performance in previous elections, Ahmed urged the corps members to be patriotic in the conduct of 2023 elections. He said, “My dear compatriots, as you are already aware, the 2023 general elections are around the corner. As was the case with the previous elections conducted from 2008.” He added, “You are to ensure adherence to the guidelines contained in the Electoral Act and, especially, remain neutral throughout the exercise. As you get set to partake in this important national assignment, I would like to assure you that we have secured the commitment of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security agencies regarding your welfare and safety before, during and after the elections,” Ahmed added.