Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis, Abuja The Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Saturday reassured the people of Kebbi that he would revive the moribund Argungu fishing festival and boost major investments including agriculture in the state. This was disclosed in a statement issued by Tinubu Media Officer, Abdulaziz Abdulaziz. The Argungu fishing festival is a way of life for the people of Kebbi State. It is an annual four-day festival in the state of Kebbi, and other northern states like Niger in the north-western part of Northern Nigeria. The region is made up of fertile river areas of matanfada, mala with much irrigation and orchards. Tinubu made the pledge while addressing the APC presidential campaign rally at Haliru Abdu Stadium in Birnin Kebbi. This is even as he commended the local farmers in the state for the revolutionary venture they have brought into agricultural sector, especially in rice farming. He said, “We are going to invest in education and agro-allied industries to make prosperity a very simple thing. We will manage water resources to make sure that Nigeria becomes a leading agricultural country in Africa.” The APC candidate who acknowledged Kebbi’s exploits in rice production and how it created close partnership between the state and Lagos, said his administration would continue to encourage such working relationships across the country. Midway through the campaign, Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu and Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, took over the podium and called on the people to cast their votes for Tinubu because of his past investments in advancing democracy in the country. Malami reminded the gathering that the APC administration has made major investments in agriculture, social welfare and infrastructure, saying it was now time to pay back by voting in Tinubu and other candidates of the party. He said Tinubu shared a lot of things in common with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), adding that if he is elected, he would consolidate on the gains recorded by the Buhari administration. Among those in attendance at the rally were APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong; Governors Mohammed Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa), Dr Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Bello Matawalle (Zamfara) and Prof. Babagana Zulum (Borno). Others were Senate Leader, Senator Ibrahim Gobir; former governors Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto); Mahmud Shinkafi (Zamfara) and Saidu Dakingari (Kebbi); former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole; APC National Woman Leader, Dr. Betta Edu; Deputy Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Hadiza Bala Usman and Alhaji Ibrahim Masari among others.