The Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, has called on members of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state to unite after Wednesday’s Supreme Court judgement. In a statement on Wednesday, the governor said the  ruling of the Supreme Court had finally put to rest the long-drawn legal tussle over the candidates that would fly the flag of the PDP in Edo State in the general election on February 25 and March 11, 2023. He added, “As the leader of the party in the state, I implore all members to consider this development as the end of all strife within the Edo PDP and to note that this is a victory for all members. Our resolve now is to win the forthcoming general elections as this experience has made us stronger and better prepared to clinch victory. “This disagreement which has now been amicably resolved attests to the maturity of actors who as law-abiding party members have subjected themselves to and accepted the verdict of the courts. “As there are no victors or vanquished in this issue, I want to call on all members of our party to come together to speak with one voice against the real opponents since our party is big enough to accommodate our various interests. “The ongoing crisis in our nation which has been choreographed by the All Progressives Congress is subjecting Nigerians to perhaps the most tortuous living conditions in our history since the Civil War between 1967 and 1970. Our efforts must now be directed to removing the APC from power and restoring our blessed country. “I, therefore, call on all our members in Edo State to stand up and be counted among the brave party men and women who stood to be counted in the execution of this all-important task to rescue Nigeria and pull it back from the precipice,” he added. The Supreme Court sitting on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by the Dan Orbih faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Edo State. The five-member panel of the court held that the appeal filed by Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama was incompetent being  based on issues that did not emanate from the judgment of the appellate court.