The ruling All Progressives Congress on Wednesday debunked reports that it is putting pressure on the Independent National Electoral Commission and other relevant agencies to shift the 2023 general elections. The media has been awash in the last two weeks about sinister moves by some powerful ‘elements’ who are using the lingering fuel crisis and new Naira notes scarcity as a smoke screen to have the polls postponed. There were extreme cases where talks about an interim government were mooted by some political pundits who believed that the ruling party is not ready for the February 25 presidential election. A statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Felix Morka, however described the reports that it is discreetly pushing for postponement of the polls as false and reckless. According to him, the speculation is a just a figment of imagination of those peddling it. He said, “Our attention has been drawn to a shadowy report in some media outlets that the All Progressives Congress is pushing for a postponement of the 2023 general elections. “The report is blatantly false and reckless, and bears no iota of credibility. Beyond its loud headline, the report offers no substantive justifying content aside from its intended purpose of misleading and causing needless anxiety and speculations regarding the upcoming elections. Our general election is matter of extreme national importance bordering on national security and corporate integrity of our country. It is not and should not become a matter for idle, rash or insensitive speculation by the media or any institution for that matter. It bears reiterating that the underlying report is fake news. “On record, under President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership, our Party continues to wage the most extensive and vibrant campaign in the history of our nascent democracy seeking to elect our visionary Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima and our Party’s governorship, national and state legislative flag bearers into office. This is in direct contrast to the lackluster and incoherent campaign of the opposition parties that have placed nothing before the electorate except their vile merchandise of lies, innuendoes and hate propaganda against the APC. “President Muhammadu Buhari has left no one in doubt as to his unshakable commitment to bequeathing a befitting legacy of credible, free and fair election, and has enacted unprecedented electoral reform and innovation that has placed our country in good stead to deliver 2023 general election and bolster our democratic consolidation.”