The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has said all campaign promises he made to Nigerians in 2015 have been fulfilled. He revealed this on Saturday while speaking at the seventh convocation of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State. Buhari, represented by the Minister of State for Education, Goodluck Nanah Opiah, disclosed he had delivered in the areas of economy, education, security, anti-corruption and other areas. He said his campaign vows centred on enriching the economy, enhancing security and the fight against corruption. Buhari said, “Let me remind us all that my campaign to become the president in 2015 was built on the promise to improve the security, strengthen the economy and combat corruption. It is with immense gratitude to Almighty Allah that I make bold to say that we have delivered on the three promises. “At my inauguration, the country was practically under the siege of terrorism and other forms of insecurity. With every sense of responsibility, I state boldly that the war against terrorism has been fought and won, as all the territories lost to these groups have been reclaimed. And terrorism in Nigeria today is breathing its last breath. He added, “It is also noteworthy that under my watch, Nigeria rose from the brackish waters of near-economic collapse to being acknowledged as the largest economy on the African continent. “This is no mean feat. It is not a given. It can only be the result of a well-orchestrated developmental plan. “Corruption also held the country by the jugular before I assumed office in 2015.” Buhari said his administration has rebuilt the education sector through increased funding for human capital and infrastructural expansion. “While it is an impossibility to channel all the available funds in the country to the education sector, it is a matter of public knowledge that my administration has been incrementally increasing funding to the sector in its yearly budgets.” He also acknowledged the accomplishments of his administration to the introduction of the Treasury Single Account, the whistle-blowing policy and the intensification of prosecutions by anti-corruption agencies.