The Peter Obi Support Network on Wednesday called on Nigerians to reject the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Congress in the coming election, saying that the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, remains the best for Nigeria. While calling on citizens to reject political parties that have turned Nigeria into their estates, the organisation said it had recruited about 50,000 polling unit monitors for the 2023 elections. The Co-convener of POSN, Tochukwu Ezeoke, at a press conference in Abuja said Nigerians should not vote for someone that would supervise the “burial of the nation” which is already in an “intensive care unit” under the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) He said, “We urge Nigerians to come out en masse to vote for Peter Obi this weekend. It is the pathway to the nation’s promised land. Our decision to support Peter Obi is out of the realisation that the ruling party and main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, do not care about the insecurity and poverty that have bedevilled our nation. “All the APC and PDP care about is to enrich themselves, their families and their cronies. They have turned Nigeria into a personal estate where they can do whatever they like with the lives of over 200 million Nigerians without any consequence. “A vote for Peter Obi is a vote for prosperity, security, employment, good governance, good roads, quality educational system, quality health facilities, a vote against nepotism and a vote to destroy the structures of corruption in the country.” On the insinuations that the Labour Party does not have structure, Ezeoke, said, “We are proud to announce that the Obedient Movement that sprang out of these early efforts has spread like wildfire across the country. “The POSN has achieved the establishment of a functional network in all the 36 states and the FCT. Diaspora chapters are functioning in over 15 countries abroad and recruited and submitted about 50,000 polling unit monitors for the 2023 elections. “We have also organised three regional conferences in Jos, Plateau State; Kaduna, and Asaba, Delta State. We have recruited and trained about 5000 LGA and ward coordinators on mobilisation and sensitisation operations.”