A tech mobility startup, Nairaxi, has coasted to victory after emerging as the winner out of the selected startups that participated in the third Annual Nigerian Communications Commission’s Information and Communications Technology Innovation Competition and Exhibition in Nigeria. The PUNCH reports that Nairaxi clinched the cash prize of N2 million after demonstrating excellence in its capacity to bridge the digital divide by adopting innovative and creative tech solutions to drive economic development in Nigeria. According to a statement made available to our correspondent in Abuja on Tuesday, the competition was organised by the Research and Development Department of the NCC and was held at the NCC Digital Bridge Institute, Oshodi, Lagos State. Described as quite competitive, the 3rd Annual NCC ICT Innovation Competition themed “Utilising Indigenous Digital Solutions to Bridge the Digital Divide” kicked off with over 1000 startup applications. 400 startup applications were shortlisted, 88 startups made it to the first cut, 58 tech hubs made it to the second cut, but only 15 tech companies made it to the exhibition booths for the semi-final. In the statement, the Chief Executive Officer of Nairaxi, Kingsley Eze, described their victory as a reinforcement towards new technology innovation solutions for Nigeria. He stated that Nairaxi would not relent in the areas of introducing, ensuring and building new bridges in the nation’s digital divide. Also speaking, the co-founder, Elizabeth Omale, appreciated the NCC for encouraging and rewarding the ICT startups in Nigeria. She explained that Nairaxi would be committed to innovative digital solutions across key sectors so as to improve social growth and economic advancement. According to her, Nairaxi has received commendations and congratulatory gestures from across the world for emerging winner at one of the biggest ICT, digital competitions organised by the Nigeria Communications Commission, adding “The tech-powered startup has collaborated with government agencies and institutions to champion digital inclusion across critical sectors in Nigeria.”